
With an impressive beginning and a brilliant end, Rukh meanders in the middle, tediously, slowly and monotonously. Yet the middle does what the storytellers had supposedly intended to do—condition you to a black and white perspective about its characters and events, which it later, very successfully, also challenges. Thus forcing you to see the same thing from different perspectives or rukh.

                        Overall, story-lovers should see it to experience the conditioning and un-conditioning. That aspect is good. But it will require some effort from you to bear the pace and minimalism.
                    
Rukh uses a muted and dragged form of storytelling to portray characters who have grappled with their past for quite long, and seem to have lost all steam to counter any more surprises in life. They are in the midst of the so-called moving-on phase when an incident forces them to revisit the past and make sense of it by discovering the truth.
The difficulty of unraveling the truth is compounded by the characters' ambiguous (you can call it grey) rendition—a sorrowful yet detached widow, a distanced yet inquisitive son. There’s also a friend and corrupt business partner whose true intentions and expressions are hard to read. The actor playing that part—Kumud Mishra—was, it seems, asked to keep it transient (he, however, fails to make the transient look effortless and natural). A couple of other associates also straddle the black and white tracks. The confusion this creates is boggling but later you realise it is also important.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Rukh can also be called a coming-of-age film because the son's inquisitiveness is the driving force, the catalyst, which brings him not just the respite but also the necessary redemption.
Performance wise, Manoj Bajpayee is brilliant in a muted cameo, he does more with his appearance and body language than with words. Everyone else appears grappling with the desired levels of muteness. Sometimes it works, sometimes the actors give away the directorial effort put in making them look and act their part.



Three songs are embedded into the narrative but fail to provide any poetic interlude to the audience. They merge with the widespread monotony.
Overall, story-lovers should see it to experience the conditioning and un-conditioning. That aspect is good. But it will require some effort from you to bear the pace and minimalism.  You can expect good cinematography though – framing, and composition is particularly good, almost by the book. 
Dialogue-lovers will be disappointed, they are too minimal in general and sometimes sound like they are deliberately written to calculatedly shroud the truth. Performance-lovers may also not feel fully satisfied.

                        The difficulty of unraveling the truth is compounded by the characters' ambiguous (you can call it grey) rendition
                    
I will say give this a miss. However, if you decide to put in the effort to watch, watch it in a sitting. Don't take breaks in between. Allow the conditioning and un-conditioning to happen.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Jeet. Jeet is a workaholic turned film addict, and vice-versa. Basically, when he is not working, he is watching films. And when he isn't watching films, he is working. The funny thing is films are also a part of his work. Go figure!
    
      Jeet also blogs at https://www.facebook.com/groups/736281183136110/.
    
    
  
