
I admit that I start out with wanting to give smaller films a benefit of doubt. I settle in my seat with a strong urge to like the film. Jia Aur Jia saw my urge die with every passing minute. Just because a film philosophizes about life and death, just because it has two women who don’t know each other take a road-trip together, just because it is a small film – does not make it a good film. Unfortunately, brooding doesn’t equal insightful philosophy. A road-trip isn’t automatically fun. A small film still has to either engage, entertain or enlighten. 

                        The actors sounded like they were talking in a dream sequence.
                    
A lot in Jia Aur Jia is ‘for effect’. There is very little that feels organic to the story. The two lead ladies are diametrically opposite personalities as if they were written in a tabular format. Jia1’s column listed ‘chirpy’, so the Jia2 column had to be morose. Jia2 has businesswoman-like mannerisms and dresses accordingly. Therefore, Jia1 has to be nomadic from head to toe and within. One smokes, thus the other won’t. And so on. 
Similarly, the situations in this road-trip story are ‘for effect’ too. The crazy Jia has to do the standard crazy things. Not so crazy, is she then? The sane Jia is the insane one who is looking out for different ways to commit suicide. Her thoughtful expression is truly irritating. Pensive characters who are reflecting into space are annoying, not mystical. Characters who steal for fun come across as silly, not zany. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The only redeeming feature is Kalki Koechlin’s performance as the supposedly fun Jia. The Jia who is overtly shallow but is sorted. It feels like she is earnestly performing CPR for a film that is on its deathbed. It is difficult to say if Richa Chadda is emotionless or if she comes across as such because her character is ruminating through the film. In effect, her Jia is annoying. Again, her character is overtly thoughtful but has no real depth. 
Even so, the film would have worked as is, if there was some chemistry between the two. There is none. In fact, it seems like they are in some sort-of a competition with each other, but that too is half-baked. Arslan Goni’s character spouts philosophies like an irksome, all-knowing, full-of-himself youngster. His act comes across as an effort. In fact, all three seem pretentious in their own way. 



Through the film, all three characters carry enormous emotional baggage. This could have been explored, sliced and diced. But, it is just narrated off as a back-story without adding much to the character they are in present time. 
Even at 90 minutes, Jia Aur Jia feels a little too long. The dance number, where all three actors seem extremely uncomfortable, is force-fitted. Similarly, the montage of Jia1 moments that Jia2 has seem like a last-ditch effort to lengthen the film. All those scenes were less than an hour ago in the film, the audience certainly didn’t need a reminder. All those moments were about a week ago in the story, Jia2 certainly didn’t need a flashback. Another montage with alternating shots of the three characters jumping into water and baking in the sauna seemed like a mindless addition. 

                        Pensive characters who are reflecting into space are annoying, not mystical. Characters who steal for fun come across as silly, not zany.
                    
The dubbing too had an echo. So, through the film the actors sounded like they were talking in a dream sequence. And just in case you thought pretty places like Sweden don’t need an effort from the cinematographer, you’d be mistaken. They have managed to make Sweden look drab here. 
How I wish that were the only shame. Jia Aur Jia is full of things that ought to have been done better for hardly any of those elements have anything to do with the budget – most of it is a lack of heart in the writing. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
