
Bhagyashree carries over from Maine Pyaar Kiya to show what post-marital life would be with a simple and virtuous woman like her. Simple she may be but succumbing her character, Asmita is not. She knows her mind and will not compromise or take any crap thrown her way. Asmita, however impractical is the only beauty of this film. The rest is a lot of ho-hum and a very poor attempt at comedy. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I have often wondered why a person offends in public and apologizes, if at all, in private. The basic plot of this film makes sure that the wrong-doer is appropriately humiliated in public. And that if the offended is strong in conviction they will get their way. 
Yet, it takes an exasperatingly long time to get there it also has loads of eye-roll inducing dialogues served along the way. Surprisingly though, there's a certain flow in the script that is lacking in many Hindi and Marathi films these days. It doesn't come across as one episode was edited to be pasted after another randomly. One event led smoothly into another. That still doesn't mean that characters are consistent or transform smoothly or are written well. And the interactions between people seem extremely superficial. 
There's this constant feeling of being in the late 80s-early 90s. From the way the people are dressed to their body language to the way the songs are picturised. That also means that Bhagyashree looks absolutely sweet and the other side characters absolutely obnoxious. I can't deny that it's very adorable to see a bride actually feel shy on her wedding day. If nothing else it's nostalgic for sure. But, we'd much rather watch one of the films for 90s for that, wouldn't we? 
Also, some out of all the really long songs are absolutely hideous. And song or no song, there's absolutely nothing natural about any of the performances - as 'put-on' as they can get. 
If you have the patience to sit through or forward some long speeches on values, some distasteful songs, some yawn-worthy comedy there is a pretty impractical yet novel argument in the end. But that patience will be required in abundance.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
