

Things that I can see through but are not very clear
It's present over there but the image is not clear
TRANSLUCENT TRANSLUCENT






(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The words TRANSLUCENT replace the words 'Jai Ho' in the OSCAR-winning tune. And this is how my child is taught the meaning of translucent in his school. Educative, entertaining and to-the-point. 
Compare that to a film which is, in all likelihood made to entertain. Its target audience is obviously kids under 12. And all they do is moralize. Okay, mercifully there are no parents lecturing children, it's the other way around. And how? Not more than one or two adults amongst the entire cast and supporting cast of 50+ care about environment. And all, note ALL kids can lay down their lives to save the planet. 
If this one-dimensionality across characters was not enough, too many sub-plots are left without any closure - making you wonder why they were there in the first place. Not that you wanted more scenes with a huge sermon but at least some kind of an arc to the story would have helped. 
Again, the main story doesn't have too many ups and downs either. It starts with an issue, moves on the another one, magically resolving the first. Then it stays with the other one and drags ad nauseam. 
All child artists behave like kids who are practicing their lives' first skit at school - conscious yet self-important. The kids aren't given cute stuff to do either. The kind that would make you smile and at least keep you engaged, in the meanwhile. There are a number of references and spoofs of popular Hindi films, but I doubt many children would get the references because they might not have seen the original. And they are way to amateur and dull for adults to enjoy. 
Also no where are the happenings anywhere close to reality. For example, that these kids have parents who watch out for them, or look up on what they are up to at least once in a while, comes forth only in the last sequence. 
The climax though interesting because of its satire and the underlying truth is too late to redeem any part of the film. This is one of those that your kids might watch once and forget it soon-soon. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
