
A movie starts and it goes on and on and on. Not in terms of sluggish pace, but just that it's playing and you are watching because you are there - indifferent and uninvolved. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is movies like these which try to stylize Kunal Khemu and Fardeen Khan that make you appreciate the charisma of Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan. At least their screen presence makes them worthy of all the slo-mo entries they've been awarded over the years. Kunal Khemu has just no oomph factor whatsoever; why he's asked to don "star" like mannerisms is just incomprehensible. Not to mention that he has a very annoying voice and dialogue delivery style. Reminds of the shrieky, eye-candy women in regular Hindi slapstick films. And Fardeen Khan does his tiny-mouth-pout with a nose flare that only he is capable of, to emote anger and love. 
It's not like there isn't room for variation in the concept but the emotions run only skin-deep. The story is no great shakes, as in, by and large things are predictable. But, every once in a while there are a couple of lines or a tiny twist that take it away that little bit from the absolutely thoughtless genre of films. And here again it is left at that and not taken an inch deeper.
Like any other movie of this style, songs appear 'just because...' But what gets annoying is the ridiculous set designs and wannabe 'stylish' type of camerawork during the songs. Also the voices used for the actors are so different from their own voices that they distract even more from the viewing experience. Though there was this one visual with Dia Mirza wearing a bright red and orange flowing skirt and swaying around in radiant-blue sea water. Whether her dress was losing color in water or the colors were mixed intentionally it doesn't matter. It was just beautiful. 
Anyway, this is yet another absolutely skippable movie. But, if you happen to see snippets, you can hold on for a bit.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
