
As morbid as it sounds, I have instructions on what's to be done if I meet with an accident if I were to go into a coma. Exactly, for the reasons that Waiting ponders over – there is no right or wrong when you are at a point to choose between keeping hope alive and letting go. Waiting takes on both sides without making it heavy-handed or too emotional either. That does create a distance between the audience and the characters but it works for the film. Anything else would have run into the danger of going into cliché territory. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For example, you don't know much about Tara (Kalki Koechlin) or Shiv's (Naseeruddin Shah) relationships with their spouses. You are given glimpses here and there but not enough to make you feel like you knew it. It is more like a given. This causes the distance but if they were to pick the standard montage of  sweet 'moments', it would take Waiting into 'typical' category. Else, they would have to spend a lot of time in exposition. 
I will take a little disconnect till they figure out a newer way of telling us how good it was for the two couples. They are all regular people who have expected reactions to unexpected situations. No one gets extra character development or such. Interestingly though, a good and important introduction time is used for Tara's feminist side. We don't see that put to use anywhere? Why was it there then? To show us she speaks her mind? Well, we got that and Shiv elaborates on it too.  Unfortunately, it comes across as a gimmick to shock. 



Beyond that, in it's own sweet-yet-dull sort of a way, Waiting is not out there to create any great impact. There is no 
“coming-of-age”, there is no big reveal, no attempt at drama. That is why it stands out. A film about death and no drama! 
In its larger scheme the film might be about death and dilemmas around it. But, it is also a subtler comment on other life philosophies – every person has to fight their own fight; loners who hate people need company too; fate isn't fair. A dash about our distrust of the medical system is thrown in too. 
And then you have the more spelled out ones which I wish had taken a subtler route - like the stages of grief which read out like its Wikipedia page. No, Naseeruddin Shah as reader doesn't help. 
Both lead actors are wonderful though, their chemistry feels very real. They are one of the main reasons, the film took me out of 'review' mode and made me forget I was watching a film. That and the soft tone, the smooth texture of the film. Unfortunately, some of the other elements reminded me back into the film world. like Tara's husband's colleague, Girish seemed like a caricature or Tara and Shiv's decisions  didn't seem to flow with the pace of the film. 
These are little things that take away from Waiting. They make a film that I loved watching while I was watching it not keeping with me for too long after.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
