
Some antics are best left to Tom & Jerry. That kind of violence is just not funny when humans do it, especially when set in a really long Ekta Kapoor soap opera. Yep, Golmaal Returns is that bad!





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


What's with this trend of having half the dialogues referring to another movie/ TV show? Every other scene has one such reference here with Sanjay Leela Bhansali taking the worst hit. How many more movies are going to do this? Is our creativity limited to laughing at another's expense? Which could have been grudgingly acceptable were it done at least a little less crudely. 
Like in Golmaal, Tusshar Kapoor's mute character comes as a welcome relief in the midst of all the screaming and yelping. And he is the only one who managed to make me laugh. And then that too became repetitive. 
Women, as we are supposed to expect, are mere eye candy and to be referred to as the men's property. Jealousy is just about the only emotion they are allowed. It almost felt like these particular women were cast only to balance off the men in the looks department. I see no other reason for casting Celina Jaitley with Shreyas Talpade and Amrita Arora with Arshad Warsi. The Ajay Devgan-Kareena Kapoor pair is alright in an Omkara but here it just feels like a complete mismatch. Especially when Kareena behaves all insecure about Ajay's faithfulness. 
And don't even get me started on how badly placed and picturized the songs are. And they sound awful too.
The silver lining to this dark, dark cloud is that I completely enjoyed the transitions used to put together two scenes. So much so that I began waiting for the scene to end, so I could see how they are going to move on to the next one. Of course, that was not the only reason I wanted scene after scene to end, but nevertheless credit given where it is due. So, how many of you would see a movie just for its transitions?
There's this scene towards the end where each member of the cast walks towards a noose hanging down a tree threatening to commit suicide. Now, three cheers to that one!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
