
Skip the italicized bits to read review. The italicized bits are my thoughts on the on-going war in Mumbai interspersed in between the review.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Over 40 hours since the country has been held hostage. Each one of us hostage to TV channels, internet reports, or twitter and some of us hostages inside the Taj, or The Oberoi or Nariman House.  Each one either scared or worried or angry or frustrated or some combination thereof. But each one of us helpless. 
What can we do? Abuse the government, opposition, media? Did that and got bored within 20 minutes. What else can I do? The only thing I can think of is to panic as little as possible and continue the routine. So here I am doing what I do every Friday. Trying, albeit unsuccessfully, to ignore what's happening 150kms away, trying to keep my angst on the world outside from making a judgment on the world inside the dark, secure(?) cinema hall. 
So, there's this thief, Lucky and he does what he enjoys doing best - stealing. So, he starts off as an insolent youth stealing, he steals as he grows. Then steals some more. And repeat. There is no high point in the drama that makes me curious about the end. 
feel like sending a text message out to see if the drama in the real world seems any closer to an end.
Of course, he steals cars and carpets and all things expensive. But he also steals teddy bears, greeting cards, and family photographs. Fine. He does it with finesse, charm, and presence of mind. In fact, the ease with which he steals is "almost" unbelievable.
Well, if a city can be set on fire so easily, then...
Now the promos claim that he steals your hearts too. Uh...no...Well, Abhay Deol, the actor's, dimples are cute. But there is only so much he can do within the confines of what Lucky, his character allows him to do. He's smug, doesn't take life too seriously and has an arrogant sense of humor that keeps a smile on your face through the two hours. 
this is weird, I'm smiling and yet my eyes go misty every time I think, Mumb...
Three cheers to the dialogue writer...
Though, of course, the point of the movie is not to make us laugh. It is to tell a story. Of this man who is so endearing that you supposedly don’t mind him stealing - Bunty and Babli style. But the story doesn't tug your heart. I see no reason why the police should get all pal-ly with Lucky.
or maybe I've just gone numb. After all, I'm in this theater watching a movie on this day of terror...there you go Mr. Terrorist, I won't get terrorized, I'm desensitized now! BOOHOO to you!!! 
There is this subtle comment on how an otherwise insensitive guy is completely bowled over and gullible when he's treated as family. And this because he has had a troubled childhood because of his family. It also comments on the media-mania. In fact the official site has director, Dibakar Bannerjee saying -

It's also inspired by crime reportage in the new shining India. ... crime is fun, it's good TRP.

Ouch! What timing...
I'm sorry guys, I'm going to cop out of this one...the plot  doesn't hold much water; it is a smart-ass comedy with decent actors who have wonderful accents. I need a story or a good narrative that engrosses, didn’t get either.
Stay safe...

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
