
I take great pains to avoid the family sagas on TV and so am offended when all of it is thrust down my throat by Ekta Kapoor herself. Even if it is taking non-stop digs at her own production house along with a few at realty shows. This is Ekta taking undue advantage of being the producer of this film. Was she by any chance trying to justify the bad quality of her story lines?
On the other hand, they’ve made quite a few others the butt of their imbecile sense of humor - Kaun Banega Crorepati, Karan Johar, Mahesh Bhatt, Akshay Kumar, Amitabh Bachchan’s status, Art of living, Jagjit Singh, Nach Baliye, J P Dutta, Doordarshan, and I’m sure many more. Only wish there were a laugh or two tucked in there somewhere.  
Well, C Kkompany is not entirely heartless. Post-interval, it does come up with a cute idea to deal with the impotency of the administration to solve the citizens’ problems. However, it didn’t take it to the next possible step of having the government take up ownership. Instead, soon enough, it gets so shockingly similar to Lage Raho Munnabhai that judging from the tone of the movie it looks more like a dig at it. 
I’d have been convinced that that’s what it is, but for some decent performances by the lead trio.  Not that they make you laugh or smile even, just that they sort-of convince you that they care and are good people. Also, these three had actual differentiating personalities which is missing in most movies of this genre.
Seeing Raima Sen in a meaningless role such as this, especially after Manorama - Six Feet Under, made me wonder whether the times are really so bad for good talent. How much life could her eyes and expressions induce in the lousy lines she’s given. On the other hand though, despite the derogatory status women are accorded, I liked the fact how regular, “not hot”, women were cast to play housewives. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Songs are to this movie as commercial breaks are to TV programs. Which means its time to go fetch your popcorn, take a short walk to stretch your legs, or whatever it is you need to take a break for.  
So, yet again, a concept with potential to entertain dies at the hands of slapstick. Oh well…

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
