
Traffic is not your regular Bollywood mish-mash put together. It is another kind of mish-mash, the kind that symbolises road traffic typical of any Indian metropolis, maybe? It manages to scrape through as a reasonable thriller, even if it is predictable. A donated organ needs to cross 160 kilometers in just 2.5 hours. Interestingly enough, it is not the predictability that takes the film down, it is the pace and laughable moments of drama created.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The drama is hardly necessary. Although arguably, any drama at all can be avoided, in this particular case, the plot is interesting enough to pull the movie through. It didn't need any external assistance. In fact, the drama comes in the way of you getting on the edge of your seat. 
This in turn ends up lengthening the film. At a good 15 minutes less than 2 hours, Traffic isn't a long film and even so feels elongated beyond what could have kept it thrilling. Individual scenes elongate. “Reveals” are over-explained. 



Despite a low budget, no frills show, there are a few scenes that are done really well. Then there are the obvious product placements and lapses like mobile phones that work in rain that serve as distractions too. 
However, the two things that hold Traffic together are the basic plot and the commentary it tries to engage its audience in. The performances aren't particularly bad, but they seem rather superficial even though every one cries really well. They manage to bring a lump in the throat. Of course, actors like Divya Dutta, Manoj Bajpai, Sachin Khedekar, Kitu Gidwani, Vikram Gokhale and Jimmy Sheirgill try to infuse as much energy as is possible in the lacklustre dialogue. However, this brings the performances all together only to a not-bad-not-great level. 
The general comment on social fabric though is what keeps you engaged. Much like a web Traffic touches on the taboo that being involved with a widow is to dowry to wide prevalence of extra-marital affairs to the corruption and need thereof in the system to value and power of VIPs. I especially liked the little things like the  clamor of media and general public oblivious to the urgency of the situation and a character not wearing a seat belt despite of the various road accidents they've seen so far and the precarious situation he is in currently. That's just how we are. 
All of the above is done without getting in your face – just a part of the story. In fact, leaving enough room to make you wonder about things going on in the film vis-à-vis real life. What if it were not a VIP situation, would it have worked out? Of course, it just might have, there is no reason to go cynical, but it does cross your mind - this when there were VIPs involved, what if it were a common man? It makes you think about the things  - What would have to be at stake for you to take unimaginable, selfless risks? On the other hand, is it because you feel you have nothing left too lose? I should point out here though that the intensity of the traffic problem is only in words here. You barely see any major trouble being caused by it.
However, does the situation - yours, society's - resemble that of the dense web of road traffic? 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
