
The quick review says it all - “Background score builds tension rather than the story, which is contrived in itself to showcase action sequences, only a few of which are sort-of not-seen-before.”





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Let me break that up. The background music is relentless, especially in the second half. Even if it takes a breather for a few seconds, you can feel it in the silence because of its assault thus far.  It is as if all the onus of building suspense was left to it, because – no story.
You can't fault the writers though. They have been asked to fit the story to squeeze in as many action sequences as is possible. There is no building character, only piling one action sequence after another. In fact, the only way they allow the lead lady to hold her own is by throwing in a kick or two. The story is summarised as follows: Boy meets girl. Another boy also meets girl, kidnaps her. What happens next?



What is going to happen next? I doubt there can be anything more predictable than the answer to that question. So, what can you do? More action. Of course.
The actions sequences are repetitive and offer nothing in terms of variety. There are a few times they have a couple of characters hold postures that look mind-blowing and make you admire the ab-control. And there a few other scenes where bones are broken in a manner to make you jolt. 
The one main thing that that one-liner leaves out is the performances. But, that it was left out must mean a lot by itself, right? Tiger Shroff cannot act. Well, at least not so far. Each line comes out as if it is the dialogue of the decade. That is as filmy as it gets. Shraddha Kapoor maybe can but there is nothing worthy required here. Her kicks and chops aren't the best. Though, unlikely as it is, I hope that is intentional because her character is not really an expert. 
Other than that there are these 'comic relief' characters that remind you of the worst from the 90s. The attempt at tugging at your heart is so superficial that they don't even bother to give you a backstory or resolution. 
Oh well. The only good thing I can say about Baaghi is that I have seen worse. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
