
Jaane tu is sweet, but not saccharine sweet. It's more the fun, peppy sweet. Yet it does not reach the heights of a lasting entertainer, mainly because of the sudden limp in the story 3/4ths way down the line. It just came across as aimless and rather random after that.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


However, the spoof-ish undercurrent running through the movie is completely adorable. The digs on all things "Hindi cinema" are thoroughly enjoyable. And I could almost sense how the writer is having a hearty laugh by having the audience lap up, the mother of all clichéd climaxes, without complaining. 
The college campus feel of the movie is going to make the young identify with the characters and their situations. And the slightly less young will enjoy the nostalgia. I liked the way various relationships were built. Be it the mother-son, the father from the portrait-son, the brother-sister, and of course friends and lovers - all these equations came across well but yet had an anti-climatic feel about it. 
Genelia and Imran Khan both bring a breath of freshness on the screen. It's as much their timing as it's the natural, much needed casualness they afford their characters that make them dear to the audience. I especially liked the insecure, confused, disappointed body language that Genelia presented in the second half. We know for sure that they are here for the long haul, at least for the chirpy, less serious kind of roles.
Anything "Aamir Khan" has to have music that adds to the ambience of the movie and its true with this one too. So, even with a forced in number like "pappu can't dance" you find yourself swaying to the music. While there isn't a shred of doubt that "kabhi kabhi aditi" is one of the most romantic numbers to have come out in recent times, "pappu can't dance" and "nazre milana" have also grown on me with repeated hearings. 
To be honest, I just don't feel right judging a movie while sitting in the corner seat of the third row (from the screen). The camera angles, the colors, the sound - all seem off to me. So, I think it'd be unfair to make any comment on any of these aspects. 
So, yeah, I had a smile on throughout the movie but the base story is a little disappointing in terms of originality. I felt a little cheated by the ultimate turn of events somehow didn’t go with the tone of the movie and thus made it land in the "much ado about nothing" category.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
