
Are there any limits to obsession? You might mull over that, but the obsessed knows no boundaries and is okay with you 'not getting' it. In fact, that you don't get it, makes him an even greater 'obsessed' even if only in his eyes. Oh what am I going on about! I can talk about a Shah Rukh Khan film without mentioning him for only so long! However, this time the reasons are all good. This is one astounding performance, even if he is playing himself for a good part of the film. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Let that register - Shah Rukh Khan plays himself, and yet, it doesn't get to you, doesn't annoy you. In fact, you empathize with the character despite his smugness.
Him as Gaurav Chandna though is a different level of act. From frame one you forget the actor and are intrigued-amused by the character. Of course, the prosthetics are amazing. But you are forced to admire the character who quickly morphs into his idol. And you smile at how the actor 'gotchya' because well, he is only playing himself!
I wouldn't be surprised if many of his self-proclaimed die-hard fans actually believed that they were getting a sneak peak into the real Shah Rukh Khan's life, especially in the first half of this film. The cooing by the two young ladies sitting by both my sides is certainly testimony enough for me. But hey, even if I wasn't cooing, I was in complete awe all through the first half too.
The story is sort-of predictable once you get a hang of the characters but the execution isn't what you'd expect. There is no lead lady, no romantic track and there are no song sequences. No romance and no songs in a Yash Raj-SRK union. And it is not certainly for want of situation - the characters are performing in award shows and weddings, for goodness sake. I don't mind songs in my films, but there is a time and place for that, which most mainstream cinema seems to forget. It is a bold commercial move to not serve the hardcore Bollywood fan their staple. 
In fact, there is a moment of contemplation. A pause for thought and consideration. The focus is on the two characters and the face off. Which as admirable as it is, gets a tad repetitive after a bit. The second half slacks with one chase sequence too many and there isn't much happening otherwise. That's not to take away anything from the first chase sequence. Camera gimmickry aside, the action choreography and conceptualisation of that chase sequence is worth a portion of the ticket price. So is some camera-framing in a scene or two. 
But then, post-interval the film gives way to run-of-the-mill roof-top and middle-of-busy-street chase sequences. Except for one scene with a lashing comment in a press conference, it is more of the same. Also, the things Gaurav does are rather predictable and thus not jolting enough. But then again, that is a comment on how fickle star image is. Media, fans, haters alike don't stop a second and consider, “Could this celebrity have behaved this way?”
Then we have the borderline sermonisation. It actually reminded me of Shah Rukh Khan's publicity appearance in the pre-match (IPL) show. He was introduced to who the show producers thought was his biggest fan. He gets a 100kg cake every year on Shah Rukh's birthday and books the whole theater to take his friends and family for every Shah Rukh film. And yet, Shah Rukh Khan the actor seemed a little awkward. Maybe it was all an act or maybe it was genuine worry of meeting a real-life Gaurav Chandna.
Even if we think he is a little out there, does the fan in us identify a little with him? Of course, Gaurav Chandna clearly needs help. And thankfully not every fan is like that. We might not be an Aryan Khanna fan or even a Shah Rukh Khan fan, but we admire someone. We want to meet that someone. We won't go to 'any' extent to meet them, but what extent would we go to? Do the people who would go further than most others see a part of themselves in Gaurav Chandna? Do they say, “you won't 'get' it” to people who point that out to them? Do they get an insight into how crazy it is? 
For bringing these thoughts, maybe for not making me want to tear my hair out, for giving me 2+ hours of a solid performance, without taking anything away from the decent film that Fan is, even if I won't want to watch it again, I, a Shah-Rukh-non-fan would like to see more of this Shah Rukh. Maybe in a film that that will take our mind of his performance. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
