
From the first frame you are taken deep into the jungle where a pack of wolves and a panther are training a man-child to be as much like a wolf as he can be. The pace doesn't drop and neither does the quality of the 3D. What makes it even better is that the story keeps you with it even though you've known the outcome for years. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Very rarely do you see grim color schemes in animation films. Even though the situation is gloomy and characters are in mortal danger, animation films usually have a chirpy set of colors to make the danger seem far away. Jungle Book breaks this norm and you see lots of grays and browns. In fact, the end sequence is set completely in the night. And no this is not because of the usual bad projection usually associated with 3D. 
I can't say it makes things look real, but I can say it makes things as real as animation set in fantasy can get! The sprinting deer, the long, dry grass, the fruits hanging off trees transport you to the middle of the action. Of course, there are logical glitches like any fantasy would have, “How would Mowgli know to use his 'tricks'?”. You explain it away, “He is human, he is smart.” “How do the animals know water can put out a fire?” You shrug, “it is fantasy”, you explain away. 



A certain emotional connect is lacking too but the nuances in the animation more than make up for it. In fact, it always amazes me about well-done animation – the facial expressions, the body language far surpasses many a live action film. This is also after considering that we do give an unsaid discount to animation. 
If you thought Mowgli and you were deep in the woods at the beginning of the film, you will discover the density of the jungle only better as the movie moves along. The dense forest, the scenes with Kaa and King Louie are just plain and simple mind-boggling. 
Once the animation is under the movie's belt, the voice enacting and Neel Sethi's (Mowgli) performance are just perfect. You root for Mowgli and not only because we are his people. Bhaloo's good-natured manipulation makes you laugh and King Louie is as adorable as he is meant to be menacing. Sher Khan has a streak of wanting the good under his meanness. Characters made interesting by they own shades of black and white.
The film flows along smoothly from one scene to another. But, in some of the fast-paced chase sequences, a few edits – a fall from one rock to another; a swing from one branch to another - are rather badly done. Yes, yes, they are few and far between; and they pass by too quickly to leave a mark.
The Jungle Book enthralls with its technical expertise and with its story-telling too. One of those films that takes you back to your childhood and becomes a lovely memory for today's children.
ps. I saw it in English.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
