
Why are we supposed to be entertained by suspending our sense of reason? Why is a few laughs considered "worth it"? Why is "time-pass" good enough? Why is one forced sequence after another called a script? Why is comedy dictating the situation, instead of comedy flowing from the situation?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Save a couple of one-liners here and there, there's nothing enjoyable about this slapstick. Unless you are the kind who enjoys patting yourself on being able to accurately predict what the writers have in store. 
The male cast does not surprise, in that they do exactly what they have been doing in every slapstick. So, while they do their bit well, not many viewers would object to them choosing worthier scripts.  Except for Feroz Khan. It almost felt like the makers didn’t think anyone in the cast was worthy of first billing. So they got Feroz Khan to blow his trumpet to justify and take the lead in the opening credits. 
Katrina Kaif fulfills expectations. She satisfactorily basks in the glory of the light thrown on her and giggles to fill in for lack of lines. Mallika Sherawat on the other hand, seriously does well as the designated flirt of the movie.
Technically the movie is plain awful. To start off, it makes liberal, blatant, and shabby use of the blue screen. It might have been just about acceptable if it were just the first two. But in combination with the third the visuals are just disastrous. 
The camera work, especially in the beginning, looked like the cameraman was testing out the properties of a wide angle lens. The non-existent editing just adds to the woes. Continuity gets step-sisterly treatment a little too often. No effort seems to have been taken even to match the colors between shots in a few sequences.
Some of the songs were chopped off absolutely abruptly too. Not to mention that their placement makes no sense whatsoever. And what a waste of Malaika Arora's dancing skills! Why did they refuse to spend on decent choreography instead of the cameraman's voyeurism? Okay, you don't need to answer that.
I trash another slapstick. What more could you expect from a person who can't enjoy masala movies even after disowning logic?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
