
If you watch Ki & Ka as a film on gender equality you are very likely to be peeved off. However, if you look at it as a crusade for the “sitting at home” housewives, then it has a certain case to make. It looked like it was aiming for the former. And misses big time. Even so, if even a handful of us (not just men) took the “not just sitting around” housewives point home, it is progress. If a few of us took the “being comfortable in your skin even when you are sitting around” point home, even better. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You can see Ki & Ka counter the very points it tries to make. While you could think of the contradictions as society's struggle with accepting a change in its perception, it feels like you are giving the film too much credit. They seem more like slip-ups in the writer's thought process. 
These inconsistencies are across the board - in the broader strokes Ki & Ka paints and in the way characters behave. Both Ki-a and Ka-bir go completely uncharacteristically berserk at different points in the film. The tantrums and the resolutions are jolting and seem off balance in an otherwise supposedly mature relationship. This is after accounting for the fact that they are humans - they are allowed to go out of character, once in a while. 



In that sense, insecurity creeping in, even if it is at its immature best, is understandable too. It simmers well before blowing up. It is the proportion that catches you off-guard. An insight at the end of the film sums it up really well.  Only, if only, it hadn't felt like a sermon. 
Then there is this one other scene that beautifully sums up all that Ki & Ka wants to say. I was in awe through that scene because of what we know from real life about the actors in it. Saying any more, will give the scene away, so I leave it for you to discover even if as a stand-alone clip on YouTube some day. 
The performances overall are quite in place. I am too warm with nostalgia to comment about Swaroop Sampat's performance. I'll just say this - she has a cool-yet-motherly presence about her. From scene one, where Kareena Kapoor's character does not want to dance to when she goes completely mental (even if it is out of character) she does well. In fact, you quite forget you are watching Kareena Kapoor as you are try to figure Kia out. Arjun Kapoor, as the laid back, 100% comfortable with being laid back Kabir, does well too. 
These performances are good enough, to leave the inconsistencies for analysis after you have seen the film and, to watch it for what it is for now. Annoyingly enough, you take the trouble of letting go and try to be a spectator to Kia and Kabir's life to suddenly find yourself in an advertisement. What is with all the product placements! Some subtle and some not so subtle. 
As jarring as they are you try to ignore them the best you can and try to grapple with this comment on the way we are. Confident go-getter Kia becomes insecure almost at the drop of a hat. And cool-cat Kabir is confident even as a man-child. Isn't this how it is? Many, if not most, women have to work hard to be secure and men are raised as confident people? Is this what Ki & Ka was getting at subtly? Was this intentional or coincidental?
Even if it was unintentional, the choice to present that insight on being human, on relationships and the one scene that is pretty much unforgettable take Ki & Ka to a likable level. Yet, every time a thick wall was built between the earner and the caretaker, I was reminded of this couple I saw with a  baby recently. Everything was division of labour - I fed the baby in the morning, you do it in the evening; I put the baby to bed three days in a row, now you do it. Is that what relationships are? Two people can't do the same thing together? Both can't earn? Both can't take care of chores? Which is why Ki & Ka comes across more as a pat on the back of housewives. Much needed as that pat is - and I can't over-emphasize that - it doesn't make the film a rom-com and it certainly doesn't make it a balanced take on relationships.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
