
It’s really exciting that new things are being tried. One obvious by-product of the process is that good directors, actors, music composers, lyricists are getting the visibility they deserve. Even if this particular movie is not necessarily the best cinema produced, it is just refreshing because of the subject matter chosen. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Scripts revolving around women deserve brownie points anyway. Why? Because they are bound to be different considering there are such few made. This script, like many others, addresses the problems of the “system” that runs the country. The contemporary touch that it gives the context makes it a gripping watch. 
Unfortunately a great chance to have insightful dialogues is lost. And it's not like the silences are used well. Also, ultimately, it is a message movie. But, the message seems to be geared towards the media. How many takers are there for a message that specific?
Also, there are digressions. One sub-plot used to establish the tone of the movie is too long. And another one, though necessary, is too rushed. Other minor digressions could have been entirely avoided (e.g., those alluding to characters' love lives). Also, there were a couple loose ends that either should have been entirely left out, or should have been given closure.
Koena Puri and Swati Sen are brilliant actors and it would be a shame if they don’t get such meaty characters to play in the future too. Swati shook me from within, in one of the scenes. The other actors are at best average. Most of them had monotonous, lifeless dialogue delivery.
Though the music isn't extraordinary, the lyrics are awesome. And, the background score breaking into "It's breaking news" is a nag.
Unfortunately, outstanding acting by the lead ladies will not be enough to cover the flaws in the details of the script. And this is despite an overall interesting plot. How I wish, it was marketed a little better, so at least a few more people would know about it.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
