
Just because of the comedy scenes every once in a while,
this movie's ranking is saved from being at the bottom of the pile.
- Due credit goes to Ajay Devgan's timing and the dialogues too.
This makes it worth a watch, but only if you have nothing better to do.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Just because I have to find a new way to complain, 
I'm wondering what we did to deserve the maker's disarray. 
- If they were given a chance to explain, 
Here is what I think they would have to say -
Just because this is an action flick, 
Glitter, style and oomph is all we feed. 
- good dialogues, acting is for lesser mortals,
cleavages and speedy vehicles is the hour's need.
Just because we wanted to get creative, here is what we did - 
We started an action heist movie at a slow pace and we stuck to it.
- At times we used repetitive dialogue to make every point clear, 
at others we thought viewers are sharp, as if they knew what we knew.
Just because we have a story board, 
doesn't mean we have to have a story, you see.
- four long-haired dudes, boat, bike, skate-board,
and a brilliantly-endowed babe to each, where's the necessity? 
Just because we have eight personalities,
Who says they need their own individual identities? 
- they all have the exact same attitude: cop, anti-hero or villain,
and they all love to make their cars do a screeching U-turn.
Just because we ran out of money to make other things screech,
We won't cut the length; we'll use animation - ugly and cheap.
- the editor then, will earn his buck - lots of interspersing to do,
You may have seen it in Hollywood, but we do it with better ado.
Just because we have an audience,
they don't need orientation to any thing or place.
- whether it is how characters know what they know,
or who is where, to do what and is fighting whom on the show.
Just because, we had a few songs in store,
we had to get as many girls dancing to the score,
- for you we imported from Brazil an item number-er. 
Why we left Dia no song, is for you to gossip-monger
Just because we made a foot-tapping fusion with Indian and misirlou,
we know the records will sell, no matter what we do with the other few.
- they come at regular intervals - exactly when one is overdue.
the dancers don't get groovy moves, but you will shake a leg or two
Just because this writer wants this to look like poetry, 
doesn't mean she will stick to a meter or go on a rhyming spree.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
