
Even if it mostly involved thorough research and referencing to put together a bunch of choreographed action sequences, it is a job well done. It is brutal, it is gruesome and it is well-edited. That is about the only good thing you can say about Rocky Handsome. Other than it attempts a sensitive track without engaging emotionally even for a bit; and tries its hand at thrilling with little to surprise you. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The big reveal is no reveal because you are expecting it and because it is unfolded rather mechanically. The issues addressed are way too many from drug-trafficking to human-trafficking to organ-trafficking. If the idea was to just display the brutality of the said “businesses”, it came through alright. However, none of it is not new. Except for the numbers maybe. It was cute the way the writers introduced the statistics involved in the movie instead of having them run as end credits. 
Yes, this is trying to grasp any visible straw. The performances are wooden, this despite cute Baby Diya Chalwad. John Abraham broods and manages a smile here or there. The villains instill fear but it is more because of the way in which they operate rather than their performances. Those seem more comic than villainous. Shruti Haasan's special appearance seems to exist only to add some oomph to a story that didn't have it. It is another matter that the story didn't need it either. 



This is where the film suffers further. Use of slow-motion under the garb of “stylization” is bad enough, it is used rather randomly too. Same goes for the background music. It takes special effort to ignore the music so that you can somehow stay connected to the story and what's on the screen. 
The story itself is all over the place in terms of the issues it wishes to take on. The cartels have a familiar hierarchy and the changes within are predictable too. The caricatures trotting around as menacing villains because of their quirks get annoying really soon. 
Rocky Handsome came out as rather poorly written than anything else. Maybe, we could have excused the lapses in execution and narrative had it been for a gripping story or even if it had somewhat interesting characters. Pure action it wanted to show you and that it does well.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
