
Each character sketch is a stereotype. Each dialogue is sharp and smart and works towards setting the stereotype deeper into the mould. Not a word wasted. Each member of the cast playing their role to the tee. And yet, there was something amiss. I can make a long list of things that I did like. But two hours later I am still unable to articulate exactly what it is that didn’t make it an instant hit.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is not a “laugh-my-heart-out” type of comedy. But it did have those satirical elements that kept a smile on my face for the entire duration. All characters are very close to real-life; enough to be freely available for each one of us to encounter at some point or the other in our lives. Each one of course, is exaggerated a tinge to underline the sarcasm. Jabs are taken at many social double standards. It is the type of humor I enjoy, the subtle, tongue-in-cheek types.  But yet, it felt incomplete. 
The overall idea is pretty cool. What more could we as viewers want? A reality show, which is done in less than 90 minutes instead of 19 weeks. No safety circles or unnecessary tension filled eliminations! However, the details of the story seem off - a little too flat. There are no particular ups and downs. But, then again, who ever said that every story needs an arch? Also, how many ups and downs do our lives go through over a weekend? So, in that simplistic sense the story is not bad either, but it leaves something wanting. There are finer details that seem unrealistic in this otherwise authentic setting. I must say though, that it has one of the most amusing anti-climatic climax.
Acting, by one and all, is absolutely outstanding. No one can be better when veteran Shabana Azmi is in the cast list. But, Manish Acharya himself (he is also the director) does a marvelous job of playing a nerd - being self-absorbed yet conscious of being a misfit, the coy boy who has no clue how to deal with women. 
Technically what stood out was the minimal use of background music and camera movement. Like many things in life, it is what you don’t do that makes things better. 
Realistic characters, realistic setting, but yet a story that is not completely believable. All-in-all, it is more of a “relaxed Sunday afternoon at home” movie than a “rush to the theater this instant” one.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
