
A close-up of an old couple holding hands – there are few moments that are as heartwarming as that. Kapoor & Sons is full of these. This in the midst of a good old family drama. Yeah, who would have thought a through and through drama plot-line could be likable. That too with its share of sexual innuendos and toilet humor. Kapoor & Sons is as good as any example of - if the “how” the story is told is done right, the “what” becomes secondary.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Drama without dramatics – it has been so long since we have seen this that by itself it is refreshing. The first half of the film barely has any background music. And when things starts heating up in the second half, there is only a slight hint. That itself cuts the drama off to a great extent – keeping background music in its place. 
The “how” then is peppered with situations and a mix of snappy, funny, profound dialogue that fit the characters, the story, the milieu. In the end then, when you find yourself engrossed with the Kapoor family's problems – and not only because you identify with them – you are taken by surprise with how sentimental the film has managed to make you.



Yes, you will see in the Kapoor family either your family or a family that you have been closely associated with. You will know why they feel better knit than a family that pushes things under the carpet. How their relationships are shattered by disclosures and how they, like any family, come together in difficult times – despite their differences, despite their personal anger towards the other. 
You relate to Kapoor & Sons also also because of its flawed characters and their portrayal by each one of the actors. The atypical dadu by Rishi Kapoor is more charming than both Rahul (Fawad Khan) and Arjun (Siddharth Malhotra). The two young actors themselves though play their own way of hiding or showing their inadequacies. You don't doubt it when other characters call Fawad Khan perfect or simple. Siddharth Malhotra slips up in a scene where he is angry but more than covers up for that in other instances, especially the one scene where he is dumbfounded. 
It is stunning how Alia Bhatt makes - being cool, sensitive, being both at the giving and receiving end of sympathy – look so easy. Rajat Kapoor and Ratna Pathak Shah play the disagreeable, frustrated couple/parents for you to think of real people they remind you of. 
And that is something Kapoor & Sons gets so right. When things get too real and serious, they edit smoothly into something that is bound to make you smile, if not laugh. This won't happen in real life, but hey – would they be stories if they reflected real life? The right balance between filmy and real is what makes Kapoor & Sons adorable despite its segue into borderline crass humor or even borderline melodrama. 
Of course, it is a tear jerker, like any family drama worth its salt ought to be. It is not about who gets the girl, or which sibling wins parent approval. It is also not about whether dadu lives or dies before he gets the family photograph clicked. “It's all about loving your family.” 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
