
Scene 1 was so bad (read more in my notepad), that I thought, "Oh cool, things can only get better!". But, the makers took up the challenge and went from worse to worst in no time. So much so, that I am inspired. I have taken up the challenge of being good to the movie. Therefore, I will try my best to refrain from words like - clichés, cinematic liberties, inanities, contrived, predictable, unoriginal and the like. Not a good start now, is that?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, this morning, I visited beautiful South Africa and was taken on a walking tour of the dazzling Cape Town without ever being there. Thanks to Kajal (Ayesha Takia) who prefers walking even though she owns a car. Kudos to Ayesha for taking up this job. Having her around brought back fond memories of Dor and what she is really capable of. The other actors meet expectations. The phrase "the less said the better" comes to mind. Since I am trying to focus hard on the "better", I choose to say "less".  
One thing is for sure, there is surely no room for getting bored with monotony. The characters have a lot to say by way of profound dialogues on love and life. Yes, they are clueless about what they want from life. But so are many of us in real life, right? And every time the dialogues start getting heavy on you Arjun's (Tusshar Kapoor) friends show up as comic relief and crack "the" joke. Dutifully, the main characters creep in reminding you that it is a love story and not slapstick. 
The lack of monotony can also be credited to the decent sounding songs. Copied, I hear you say? The originality, dear friends, has been saved for the lyricist. Honestly (not that I have been dishonest so far), it is the best attempt at poetry in recent times. The choreography, gives me the confidence to make another attempt at dancing. It's all pretty mechanical, after all. 
Have not been very successful at keeping to my challenge, have I? Hey, cut me some slack. This was my first attempt at being positive about a positively bad movie. Worry not. Such attempts will be few and far between. I am not very good at being nice for too long. The nastiness will be back for the next bad movie generated.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
