
It is amazing how so much ground is covered at such a slow pace in less than two hours. More movie-makers need to learn this trick. And it is all with a lot of style. But, as a thriller, it fails. There are no major twists in the plot, given the situation you know exactly how the said character is going to react. And the last scene is painfully silly. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


However, if the technical aspects like the action and stunts, the cinematography, the camera movements interest you; it is certainly worth a watch. The unique treatment of the titles grabs attention. The first 15-20 minutes raise curiosity but are what I call ‘over-produced’ - dramatic entries of characters, too much background music, and the urge to do something “different” in every frame shows. 
The actual story unfolds gradually and during the interval you are thinking, “it’s okay so far, let’s see how it goes”. And then come the dialogues repeated for impact - okay, I am exaggerating - only one dialogue is repeated…but, thrice. To my credit though, it was not just me, the whole auditorium gave an exasperated  “ohhh”, the third time. And the word “dharm” is heard one too many times. The unique characteristics of Amitabh Bachchan’s character are repeated till you learn them by heart. And then comes the climax where I said almost blurted out, “You gotta be kidding me! The maker of Parinda and 1942 – A love story ended his movie like this?!”
The performances are awesome. Once again, you forget that this is the Amitabh Bachchan on screen. He looks and feels the character. The screen presence he has in some scenes, by just standing there without a single line to deliver, is just amazing. Everyone else has done their job to perfection too. But, if I want to watch a recent movie of Amitabh Bachchan in a serious role, I would watch the second half of Babul again. If I want to watch Saif Ali Khan as an angry character I would rather watch Omkara again. Sanjay Dutt, obviously does well as the comic relief, but if I want to laugh with him, I will watch Lage Raho Munnabhai again and again. Ditto for Vidya Balan, who with full grace, takes care of the mandatory romantic angle.
The flaws in the screenplay are too many and end up distracting you from the visual treat. Same story with a lot more detailing and by a Vidhu Vinod Chopra from ten years ago - we might have had a better experience.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
