
Fitoor has dream-like visuals. In that sense it completely absorbs you in its world. But, unfortunately, only the visuals are arresting, and to an extent the atmosphere that the music creates. The story however, as it progresses, does its best to disengage you from itself. No number of good-looking people can save you from that then.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It would be unfair to say that Aditya Roy Kapoor and Katrina Kaif are only appealing to the eye and have nothing to offer in the acting department. There are subtle sighs and eye movements that add to the essence of the scene. But, to ask them to hold a film on their pretty shoulders, is a bit much. 
We have seen Aditya Roy Kapoor sulk and carry a morose air about him through a film, so this does come across as a repeat performance. And, Katrina Kaif (and even the child artist who plays her character's younger role) plays femme fatale quite well. But given her gorgeousness, she doesn't need to do much . However, for a change this time around with the extra layer of charming fat on her cheeks, she comes across as homely too. Tabu is enigmatic too, but her character comes across as forcibly so and then gets a tad too dramatic towards the end.



However, a romance where there is more chemistry between the characters when they aren't together compared to when they finally do get together, has got its grammar wrong somewhere. The disconnect when they are together would have been alright too, if it were not for the climax chosen. 
Except for the first half hour, where our protagonists are growing up, the story is fragmented. You don't know why these people are so madly in love with each other. Love at first sight and puppy love? Sure, I will take that as a given and enjoy the intensity of obsessive love. Despite this acceptance though, the details are sorely missing. Fitoor comes across as an extremely superficial view of the couple's love for each other – both in longevity and intensity. Similarly, the political angle is touched upon rather perfunctory. It's like the writers knew, the love story wouldn't be enough by itself and needed some other meat to hold the viewers' interest. 
Fitoor is Vishal Bharadwaj's eccentrity combined with a Sanjal Leela Bhansali's visual acumen. And yet that doesn't end up being a compliment. Maybe a case of too many influences spoil the broth?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
