
It was pleasantly surprising start to the film. Characters being introduced seamlessly, story building up well. For once, I felt like the concept of how the story is told can really make an over-told story engaging. Alas, post-interval, the film nosedives faster than you can think.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


When I say it started well, it has a lot to do with what wasn't done. There were no typical voice-over type shortcuts; no extra emphasis on trying to explain the background. A little tacky with the mental-illness induced flashback and a few obvious lines that were there just so the audience knows what the characters already know. These were easily excusable considering the setup typical of a film like this was conspicuous by its absence. For example, when was the last time we had a villain who was aware of behavioral issues? When was the last time a child was applauded and the child reprimands her audience with “what's the big deal?” 
The performances too were quite restrained. I might be a tad more forgiving because I went in expecting a screaming Sunny Deol. Soha Ali Khan seems worn out but at least she is taking age in her stride. The villains, Narendra Jha and Abhilash Kumar play their parts as business tycoon and spoilt brat well. The four idealistic youngsters – Shivam Patil, Aanchal Munjal, Rishabh Arora and Daina Khan – are competent enough for you to be worried for them. 



However, the story writing doesn't support them in the second half. The film goes from being about the menace of the business-politic nexus to a personal story, rather abruptly. Also, all the focus on the main story, the long-long chase sequence is wrapped up all too quickly making you wonder what the fuss was all about. Speaking of which, the chase sequence (like the film) starts out engaging you completely making it a thriller worth its salt and then overstays its welcome. 
When the film ends though, you remember what you liked even though you are totally miffed with how it all ended. A lot of what you like has to do with what was avoided – like self-references, songs, romantic track and so on. Unfortunately, you can remember a film for what it is not, only so much. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
