
There are guesses to make as far as a Hindi underdog film's climax goes. The problem with Saala Khadoos is that every minute in the film is predictable. There are some good performances, sure. Also, it invokes a sadness for the condition of sports in the country. That is predictable too. The system is the worst imaginable film after film with little glimmer of hope. Now, that is one sorry state of the state.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I guess, even sorrier is that is the fact that reality must be worse than what many of these films portray. Ah well...
Despite the predictability, some fine performances keep you engaged. R Madhavan might seem like a sulking loser. But, there are moments when you can see his resolve to be focused on the future of the sport in the country and nothing else. Viewers can take “he is stern for a good reason” personality as a given – that's how good the performance is. Ritika Singh too plays out various shades of Madhi quite well, maybe over-doing the boisterous bit a tad. Yet, not enough to hold it against her. Zakir Hussain does is annoying bit well enough for you to want to squirm every time he is on screen. And this is all despite the off dubbing. 
That the actors cannot do more is to be blamed on superficially written characters. The script too is convenient when hardships suddenly smoothen out and smooth tiding suddenly become tough. Which is alright, because that is how life is. But here, it is rather unbelievable. The romantic arc, the change in heart come across as functional rather than organic to the story. The fire in the dialogue and spunk of the first half dies out in the second half and you are left with nothing but a predictable plot and performances you have gotten used to. The writers wanted to focus on the sport and nothing else, and that shows. 
Other departments pitch in to that effect too. The cinematography is not unique but works well during the boxing matches. The songs, though mostly in the background, jar the flow of the film. Some lyrics stick though, like - Khwaab banke aaya tha tu, Yaad banke reh gaya1.
The drama though limited, is very typical to that of any film which wants a grand finale. This unfortunately, makes the film even more predictable than it already is. 
Unfortunately, that is how the ball roles. Underdog films about the state of sports have to focus as much on being unpredictable as they have to on the topic itself. Else, they are bound to lose. 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
1translation – you came as a dream, and turned into a memory. Can be interpreted as – you came as a dream come true and turned into a mere memory)

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
