
The “edge-of-the-seat” bit of a thriller comes from you second guessing yourself on what you think might happen. If however, you know for sure what the turnout is going to be like the edge is taken off. Yet, a hopeless hopeful like me,  waits for the unwrapping – the manner in which it will all play out. Wazir disappoints with that too.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even if you didn't figure it out, Wazir's twists are unraveled through monologues that spell out the scheme – be it by the victim or the perpetrator. That kind of resolution is one of the worst kinds in a thriller. Just because the other characters in the film are awestruck, it takes a little more to surprise the audience. Wazir can get points for making it quick though. There isn't a long-winded explanation, just short, sweet and shut. 
In that sense, the film is crisp and moves along pretty swiftly. It keeps you interested even though it might have meant to keep you glued. During the film for some reason, I was expecting it to break into a “khoya khoya chand”, a la Shaitan. Though I remember that one not fitting in the film and coming across as a gimmick in the context of the film. In that sense, Wazir lacks style. I know, I know, what is the poor director to do! Style comes across as gimmick when done and when missing, the viewer missed it. 



However, I am positive I wouldn't have missed it one bit had it been for a strong story. The chess analogies seem lame. The breadcrumbs for the “twists” are too obvious. For instance, you know a certain dialogue is being overshadowed by another one  because the former has a clue. And indeed, when the mystery unveils, the dialogue is repeated, just in case the audience needs to be spoonfed. 
And this is despite an inscrutable performance by Amitabh Bachchan. Of course, I mean that in a good way. A quip-less Farhan Akhtar is a little hard to take in. While it is a good change for him as an actor, as the audience you are expecting him to break into a smart-Alec line any time. Sure, that cannot be held against him, it's just that the character makes him that guy with just one expression. Aditi Rao Hydari looks gorgeous and yet again, is just that. Interestingly, though each of her roles use her as just the necessary female lead, I have wondered what she would do with a really meaty role. 
That leaves us with a thriller in which can tell two of the main twists from a mile away and are willing to forgive the writing because of the performances. Until the revelations come in the worst form possible. Even so, for those of us who couldn't guess the twist, Wazir might be well worth the watch. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
