
Babumoshai Bandookbaaz is as raw and rugged as any noir film set in the world of politicians who double-cross and hire contract killers can be expected to be. It stays crude through the sex and violence – both of which it has in plenty. However, what gives way is its limp writing in the last half hour. 

                        The film has a very interesting set of women characters.
                    
Over the years, I have learnt not to be led on by great starts and greater build-ups. Far too many times, the climax is well...anti-climatic. While I wouldn't call Babumoshai Bandookbaaz anti-climatic, but it is rather disappointing because it seems like a cop out. 
All the strength of the film though is in its characters. There isn't a good soul in this  milieu. They are all just different shades of dark grey. As sad as that is, it is sadder that that's the reason the film feels real. Of course, brilliant performances across the board help things along. I don't know if I will ever tire of seeing Nawazuddin Siddiqui in a crude villager's role. Especially the one who has a swagger. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But then here, everyone has a swagger, and each one carries it with elan. Banke (Jatin Goswami), Phulva (Bidita Bag), the various police officers, their wives, the politicians and a politician's wife – all behave as if they own the place. 
The film has a very interesting set of women characters. Most of them are strong-headed. Most of them are the kind you wouldn't cross in a hurry. And very interestingly, the leading men and the main side characters – are all respectful or rather not threatened of the women's independence. Of course, there is letching and prostitution is shown openly. But, the women are far from submissive. And yet it all looks real. That's how well the characters are written. If only, the writers didn't lose steam towards the end. 



What is heartening though is that the main draw of this film was Nawazuddin Siddiqui and of the three films I saw today, the other two had two other people in the audience. Babumoshai Bandookbaaz was almost house full, and in a bigger hall too! Whether or not I like the film, that a non-standard film gets its chance with the audience makes this festive season even brighter. And this one does it despite being dark to the core.  

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
