
A little while into the film and I was wondering why the interval hasn't struck yet. That's usually not a good sign. Occasionally it can mean that so much has happened in the film. Naah, don't get your hopes up, it was the former.  Can't remember the last time I saw a film which started off with such a resounding vibe of “what else did you expect?” Toilet humor, racing cars, over-enthusiastic sound effects, and so on. Some time in the middle of the first half there is a slight upward trend with a couple of good laughs and an unexpected plot point. But, we quickly go back to what we were expecting and that's that.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In more than one way, the story comes a full circle from where things started in 1995 with Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge, it does a double take too. Certainly, Dilwale has a lot more story than you'd expect in a Rohit Shetty film. 
Doesn't mean the details are any less predictable. Oh, I am exaggerating, the unpredictability lies in the fact that when you expect a song a fight sequence is thrown in. 
Also, having a story doesn't mean it isn't ridiculous either. It is and it makes you roll your eyes over and over. And when the story doesn't do that it is taken over by most of the dialogue. That or you snort or snore. The only relief then comes from a few lines that make you laugh. A few of those are just at the plain silliness of it all, a few because of the way Johnny Lever delivers them and a couple from Varun Dhawan's dialogue delivery. 



He actually tones the drama down quite a bit. Whether it is the director's call or his contribution is difficult to say. But those times of restraint come as a welcome relief from the background music's omnipresence and more. It is as if the score would feel guilty if the money spent on it didn't show. Kriti Sanon isn't anything out of the ordinary, could be because her character isn't either.
Shah Rukh Khan-Kajol are completely devoid of chemistry in their scens together. Just like old times - he hams, she shrieks. I don't know if I'm sad that we know that he can “not ham” and she can “not shriek”. Irrespective of what happens later in the film, that might justify their behavior, that bit was quite unbearable to sit through. They make up for it a bit later with a lovely scene. Awkward sitautions in Hindi films usually go wrong just by exaggeration. Owing to the actors restrain in this particular scene, it turns into one which I will remember every time I think of the film. 
Which unfortunately, will not be too often. As I wrote the preview for Dilwale, I wondered why should I watch a film that I am so apprehensive about. And now I remember. Films like these were one of the reasons for me to start wogma. Films that are superhits, but I just didn't like. Films that ask me to keep my brain aside. Films that are loud and are proud of it. It was to raise my squeaky, little voice and register a protest. 
While watching it today, I remembered the other reason. In these films there would usually be something that I enjoyed. These moments would get masked by the negativity the film would invite by just being what it was. However, I didn't want to forget those moments and how a movie made me feel. With Dilwale the one tiny twist showed me a ray of hope that at least some attention is being paid to writing. A couple of genuine laughs took the bite away from the toilet humor the film began with. The one scene with awkward silence stuck. Other than these, the movie was everything I expected from it – yawn and cringe inducing. But hey, that's how little it takes to go from “Switch channels if it's on cable” to “Watch if you have nothing better to do”.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
