
He can punch and kick, he can pump iron of course, he can dance, he can maybe even romance. Whether or not Sooraj Pancholi can act though we will have to wait for another film to know. She is tall, she has flawless skin, she can pout. Whether or not Athiya Shetty can act though we will have to wait for another film to know. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The good news though is that they aren't complete write-offs. Though it is suspicious that there are times when slow motion seemed to aid his swag and her pout even. But, you never know how things might turn out a couple of films later a la Alia Bhatt. Also, they barely have a chance at dialogue delivery in this film, given they have hardly  more than a line at a time to deliver. Almost as if the director knew that they wouldn't be able to handle it. 
Why a director with reasonable aptitude like Nikhil Advani agreed to make a film that is more or less a show reel for the starlings - whose parents weren't the greatest actors or even stars themselves – is beyond me. 



Whatever the reason might have been, that the dialogue was held at bare minimum gave a few “moment”s to the film. Though not sizzling, at times, there is a lingering charm about Sooraj Pancholi and Athiya Shetty's chemistry. Which is also why we can maybe hold judgment about them as actors for a couple more films. They aren't completely plastic as we have come to expect from new actors. Yet, they aren't natural. Through the film you think of them more in terms of whose kids they are in real life rather than the characters they play.
The characters themselves barely have any facets or depth to them. Neither do any of the other aspects of writing. The story stays more or less like Hero (1983). Hero kidnaps heroine for whatever reason. Because they are hero and heroine they have to fall in love. How they drive overnight from Mumbai to a place where it snows is not a question we ask. Anyway, families don't like the alliance. Yadi-yada-da. We saw that 32 years ago and some versions of it before that and after. 
Sure, the lighting, the framing, the editing (especially that of the laser dance) is slick. But, the finale performance or even the fight sequence is lame again. 
It is striking that patronizing patriarchy has lived through the years. It was back then and it seems to be the norm – at least in many of our movies – even now. It is unnerving that the sole reason for the lead lady's existence in the film is so that she can be protected. It gives the men in her life something to do. Didn't make sense then, doesn't make sense now. Only now she is empowered enough to give away her shorts and mini skirts in an exchange offer for salwar suits to show that she is mourning. 
Oh well. Life goes on. The same movie still gets made. New faces, but no value addition to the film, no new stories. So used to expecting the same thing over and over again have we gotten, that we have even stopped getting bored watching them. You shrug, “what else did you expect” and move on. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
