
If it were not as expected, Gulaab Gang would have been disappointing. So, as the trailer pointed out, the film is one dramatic scene after another without respite. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The drama is magnified by Madhuri Dixit's emphatic dialogue delivery and Juhi Chawla's drawl. The latter actually grows on you in a bit. Juhi Chawla's Sumitra is as cunning as every second politician and the actor makes it very easy for you to hate her. Juhi Chawla is at her best when she is required to portray Sumitra's fickle ego. 
Unfortunately, Madhuri Dixit's character, Rajjo Devi is directed in such a way that she has no option but to play her character with extra style, even if she is from a little village. Once you get over it though, you see that Madhuri Dixit has tried hard to work in variety within the restraints of the many slow-motion sequences and forced, strong one-liners.



It is a shame then, that despite these one-liners, the film lacks punch. There are few side characters that retain interest but then again, they are more or less clones of each other with respect to in their personalities. 
The writing of the overall film takes the audience's need for justice for women for granted. Right from the titles, you are never given enough cause to side with the gang of women who take justice in  their hands. It is assumed that you know how bad the wrong by the wrong-doers is. Given that, any punishment the Gulaab Gang decides for them is also to be accepted as apt. 
Moving on, the situations created seem disjointed. It feels more like sequences were conceptualized independently and fit in together forcefully. For example, the sub-plots used to display Sumitra's borderline megalomaniac personality go overboard within the context of the film. Thus losing out on both an awesome dark character that she could be and building a really powerful story to justify these intense sub-plots. 
Then all you are left with are the vibrant songs. Here I concede, to watch Madhuri Dixit dance, I don't need any context to see grace and elegance incarnate. And this when she's not even at her best. She must be the only actress who actually dances. As opposed to other actors who have the potential to convert even the most melodious of songs to an aerobic beat. 
Even so, it is disservice to the topic at hand - empowerment of the women and poor from the interiors of the country, if one of the major things I take away from the film are its (not the best) dance sequences. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
