
Main Aur Charles is stylish. Charles is suave. He is also supposedly a charming seducer – so you are told, not shown. The film builds an air about the character Charles Sobhraj (Randeep Hooda), but leaves it at that and doesn't get into the details. His overwhelming effect is shown, but the cause is to be assumed. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For example, a criminal psychologist interviews Charles Sobhraj and she comes out rather impressed. How did he do it? Well, this movie won't tell you. The only vague attempt is made through Meera (Richa Chadda) when she talks about how she feels about him. However, she backs out and steps in too haphazardly to make sense. 
The performances though are the kind that keep you with the film. You want to smack the smirk off Randeep Hooda's face and that is his achievement. However, Richa Chadda isn't too convincing as Charles' dreamy-eyed lover. Adil Hussain though brings balance to the lop-sided view of Charles Sobhraj. He firmly represents a voice from the audience that says, “why is this murderer being romanticized?”



The entire film is made to give that aura to the character, begging you to be seduced by him, by overcome by his slithery charm. The sepia tone, the accent, the Bond/Don-esque theme music all work towards that. There were a few distractions in terms of authenticity of the era – for example, a scene from the 80s is interspersed with a shot of a newspaper dated 1965. The clothes in Goa, especially those being sold by street vendors, looked very similar to the ones I saw in my recent trip to Goa. But hey, for all I know, fashion might have has done a full circle. 
All of which would have been totally ignored, were I engrossed in the story being told. They are stylish snippets that have little detail in the telling. Yet again, we have a film based on a real life personality that doesn't tell us much more about the personality than what we new from newspapers or a quick Internet search.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
