
I repeat, “Shaandaar is the Anees Bazmee-fication of Dharma-ised version of the Phantom-isation of Vikas Bahl's Disney tale. Oh dear, how do I fit Barjatya in that sentence now?” Shaandaar looks like it has been directed by six teams. To start with Vikas Bahl wanted to make a simple Disney story adding his flair of light, lively comedy. Since the setting was a big fat Sindhian wedding, it had to be the Barjatya way or the highway. The producers Phantom and Dharma brought in quirk and cheesiness respectively. How and why Anees Bazmee entered the equation has only one explanation. Their target audience was 100% of the film-watching population. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And just in case you are wondering – no, it doesn't work. 
What does work is the lead performances – Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt and Pankaj Kapoor and the songs' lyrics. It has been a long, long while since lyrics have caught my attention and kept it there. I shall buy the music for the lyrics. A shame though that the music doesn't live up to the craziness that the Vikas Bahl-Amit Trivedi duo had done an awesome job the last time they got together. So be it. 



Alia Bhatt bring her casual coolness to screen that is charming and you completely relate with Shahid Kapoor when he can't take his eyes off her. Shahid Kapoor himself with a very cursorily written character does a composed knight in shining armour with small weaknesses of his own. Pankaj Kapoor has his own brand of restraint that he brings here too. Some scenes with the real-life father-son duo were delightful indeed. Similarly, Shahid Kapoor and Alia Bhatt are great on screen together and could have had chemistry, had the writing allowed for it.
While the trailer portrays the film quite literally as a fairy-tale romance, and the film leads you on with animated frogs, clouds, in the beginning. But, it soon becomes something else. Men wanting breaking free from their mother's tyranny. Women wanting to break free from the label, “obese”. Shaandaar also tries to trot about like a woman-empowering Queen, but doesn't manage to do that without her male leads. 
Undoubtedly, it is a mish-mash of ideologies, of film-making aesthetics. I cannot shake off the big question mark – why? Why would a perfectly sane director go about doing this? You can't even call this experimentation because individually every thing that the film does has been done before. Maybe, true to the film's theme – it was not a film, it was a business deal. 
These individual experiments too are stretched out not only beyond the point that they are novel/funny/engaging but also beyond their tolerable time limit. All stretching to a stretched out climax that is truly difficult to sit through given the director and cast. Maybe this film could've worked if it was an hour shorter, but we'll have to see it to know it. 
The outtakes in the end credit show that there was much more that didn't make it to the final cut. Looks like the crew had loads of fun. Thank you for keeping us out of it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
