
Jazbaa is superficial. The mother aches for her daughter, but it is the glycerin in those pretty wide eyes that tells you so. All characters are grey which is pretty rare in Hindi films but they don't come together to make the film interesting. The motivations are unclear which builds an air of mystery but the conclusion so convoluted that the only reaction can be a resounding facepalm.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The dilemma setup and the whodunit aspects of the story create intrigue. You wonder how even a successful advocate like Anuradha Verma (Aishwarya Rai) will get out of the soup that she has been pulled into. But two things come in the way of this decent start, a muddled middle and an flummoxing end. 
Who goes after whom for what makes little sense, even after you know how it all ends. In fact, more so after you know who's done it after all. Its a shame because the plot is not entirely nonsensical until about three-fourths of the length of the film. Meanwhile, you also have the swag-infused philosophies that Yohaan (Irrfan Khan) spouts. 



Here the superficiality begins to show through the cracks. The cracks that Irrfan's straight-faced dialogue delivery tries hard to keep under cover. An act we are soon getting used to. Yet, give me a always poker-faced, subtle Irrfan any time and over and over again, over a stereotypical over-the-top “top” star. The lines given to him are actually not bad, but they are overdone. A line that has been worked upon too hard loses charm.
Exactly like our lead lady's performance Aishwarya Rai Bachchan. The film opens with showing her fit, in fine form, pretty as ever with a lovely, slightly chubby face that which comes with aging gracefully and being a mommy. The hard work on both her fitness and performance show. Unfortunately, they are both distracting. She is so fit, her back so straight that even the drooping shoulders of a mother whose daughter has been kidnapped looks like a forced slouch – for effect. Her over-powering screen presencedoesn't cover up for the hard-to-lose model-like gait. As far as those bewildered, supposedly pain-stricken eyes go - no amount of shrieking over one's lungs can cover the fact that they have been artificially dampened. 
Even so I am excited about her return. Her performances have rarely inspired a word other than “plastic” from me. Irrespective of the success of this film, I am glad she is back. It is symbolic because she hasn't come back to where she left off. Looks like she has left the Dhoom 2s and the Robots behind her. She has come back to roles that mean something even if they don't make for great films. She has come back to some causes, like girl-child fetocide and drug abuse, even if they aren't well-placed in the context of the story. It is a good restart. 
And I would say that even if it were a film-made far worse. So starved are we for roles that mean something, more so for the lead lady. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
