
For a film that starts with slapsticky toilet humor, A Gentleman recovers quickly with a couple good laughs, a tolerable-cute romance, and some slick action. Unfortunately, it goes back to regular action masala post-interval and loses the little charm it creates in the first hour. 

                        You cringe at her dialogue delivery just like you'd cringe when you hear Matthew McConaughey speaking in Hindi.
                    
It was a pleasant surprise to see the writers tease the audience into saying “baah! predictable” and peek-a-booing a “gotchya!” There are some good action scenes too. I especially enjoyed the parking lot and shopping aisle scenes. There is a little honesty in the romance too. Interestingly, this romance felt relatively germane to the story compared to some of the cool stunts that were for the sake of cool action. After a bit, it truly became fitting in fights because they made the film look slick rather than being an integral part of the story.
The story itself was weaved together in a very 90s-like fashion where all elements of entertainment are put together – comedy, romance, action – with each of these doing their bit in keeping you engaged. But, as a whole it loses steam. Interestingly again, a film full of any of these elements wouldn't have worked together either. They were entertaining in that dosage only. Anything more and it would drag. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


That points to the inherent weakness of not being able to convert an interesting-sounding core idea into a full-fledged feature length film. If any of these departments were strong by themselves, one wouldn't need the other elements as fillers. And even so, for a film that wants to showcase it's action and masala, A Gentleman does relatively well with its attempt at story.             
Siddharth Malhotra does reasonably well as both Gaurav and Rishi. He has his own style of merging with his surrounding, whethere it is a dreary office meeting or a covert spy operation. This unfortunately, could also mean that if he doesn't evolve, he will loose screen presence. To elaborate, in the scenes with Jacqueline Fernandez, or for that matter even Hussain Dalal, they own the screen. 



And while Dalal is doing a good job of keeping a smile on your face, Fernandez isn't even trying too hard. Her diction reminded me of dubbed English films. You cringe at her dialogue delivery just like you'd cringe when you hear Matthew McConaughey speaking in Hindi. It is sad that she is still taking on these roles whereas almost every actress of her stature is doing at least some films that don't use women as pretty props. Instead she picks a role that is as redundant as a woman in many a Hollywood action film.
Well, at least they picked and executed the action pieces well. If only, only they were enough to recommend a trip to the theaters for you. In that sense, it is a step down for this writer-directer duo. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
