
Madhur Bhandarkar must assume your eyes are shut tight for him to call his own films “eye-openers” or he is blind to things that must be going on in the industry to give us such a superficial view. Certainly things far worse must happen in the glam-world than his movies about it say. Having taken this into account, I watch his films as stories rather than revealing account of anything. But Calendar Girls doesn't have that either.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It follows the lives of five girls who have supposedly made it big in the industry because they have posed in a leading calendar. In this age of digital calendars, I don't even know what that means and why that is important. Anyway, moving on, these girls expectedly struggle, make it, break, evolve or give up.  Though, there are five directions these lives take, only one of them is half-interesting. 
The good bit is that there is not too much drama around the story-telling. Everything is presented in a matter-of-fact tone and just that – a story of a model. But, unfortunately, the characters, their arcs, the lines, the way they say the lines are lacking too. 



It is, in fact, amusing the number of times twitter trend is mentioned, making the writers sound like they have discovered a new bird called twitter. And just in case you miss it, they explain what it is all about, which ends up exposing how underexposed the writers are themselves. Like that one person we all know in our lives, who shows off their wealth by mentioning their trip to Mauritius “in passing”.
As smirk-worthy as that is, it is infuriating that the writers must believe they are making a film about women and how empowered they can be. Even if said in jest, “I make women-oriented films because male stars are less professional than women stars” is demeaning to women at so many levels. You give them the benefit of doubt. They must have meant it as a self-deprecating joke; but hey what is self-deprecating about making women-oriented films? They must have meant it as women are more professional; but hey is the comparison necessary and does that mean you'd rather make male-oriented films. Try as I might, there is no good way of making this sound good or even acceptable.
Then the writers run out of occasions to mention twitter and selfie, and go back to tropes like celebrity being paid to attend a funeral. Sure, it is an amusing facet of that world and the associated farce makes you roll your eyes too. But, Mr. Bhandarkar, you didn't think we have forgotten the last time where we saw this, did you?
It doesn't help that hardly any of the actresses can act. Ruhi Singh has a very distracting accent. Her dialogue delivery is actually like that of kids in school dramas. While Kyra Dutt and Akanksha Puri show glimpses of expressions, Avni Modi and Satarupa Pyne are what Madhur Bhandarkar's cameo says about a leading actress – single expression. However, who are we fooling by judging these ladies for their performances, right? They are clearly not here for any of that non-sense. 
I must say though, I am a little surprised that the sleaze wasn't as bad as I had expected and it was refreshing to see a Bhandarkar film without a stereotypical, gay fashion designer. Yet, it is always a mark against a film when you start talking about the things the film could've done wrong, but didn't. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
