
We've seen and are even used to what we fondly call, “mindless comedy”. Katti Batti is a “mindless romance”. The kind where the destination was known but the path to the venue seemed to be unchartered. It felt like the writer knew, they had a rough idea of what they wanted on the way. A little comedy - slapstick even, the typical woo-ing and faking nonchalance, and a lot of lingering around with nothing happening. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For some reason it felt like the run-time was decided before the script - the movie has to be this long no matter how you reach the number. Add songs, add random back and forth, add inconsequential scenes. No matter if they don't hold an iota of viewer's interest. 
It is understandable that there can be no logic when love is at first sight. But, doesn't a romantic film let you in on why the relationship has held together so long? You can tell why Madhav Kabra (Imran Khan) has fallen in love with the chirpy Paayal Malhotra (Kangna Ranaut) but you don't know her side of the story at all. Why is she with him?



Anyway, we have to be convinced because he is convinced. So we accept and move on. But move on, he just doesn't. Yes, at least one end of a couple finds it very difficult to let go after most breakups.  Our man Madhav aka Maddy seems to be the one in this love story. And that is pretty much the story. That he doesn't give up. That his gut tells him what his eyes see and brain processes don't ring true. 
But, you get that in the first 10-15 minutes of the film while the film spends the next hour and more making sure you got the intensity right. Except that, it doesn't work on the intensity. It just asks you to believe the sulking Imran Khan. You don't feel the pain, other than the one when you realise it is not even interval yet. 
Other than the back and forth time-line that the film uses to go between Madhav-Paayal's present break-up era and the years gone by when their love blossomed, Katti Batti has very little to keep you interested. And that too gets boring after a bit. In fact, the criss-crossing time-lines seem to have confused the writer themselves and the “physical intimacy” chronology is a little difficult to believe. In the middle of a making out scene, Madhav claims he just wants to cuddle in response to Paayal's “You want to make love, don't you?” Just doesn't fit in. 
So, the makers try to make it up with different kind of picturisation for a few of the songs. It is intriguing, entertaining even. But, it gives the film a surreal video album kind of a glaze. Making the story even more unbelievable than it already is. 
That leaves all the onus of making something worthwhile in the film to the lead cast. Since what we can call the story is from Madhav's point of view, Kangna Ranaut hardly has worthy screen time. And the by the time she does have some meat to play around with, it is too late. Madhav on the other hand, has two modes in his point of view – sulk and smitten. He does play both reasonably well, but then again nothing we haven't seen before. It also feels like the romantic lead label for Imran Khan comes more from his chocolate-boy looks than actual romance. 
No romance, zilch comedy in this rom-com. Should they stop trying so hard to remake movies and try their hand at some novel story-telling if not original stories?
~ ~ ~
ps. A quick word about the use of FOSLA – Frustrated One Sided Lovers' Association. Way back in 1995-96, I am pretty sure, one from our group of friends had come up with this idea/concept. It was surprising to hear of the book, a rumor about a film and then see it in Katti Batti today. I guess, things had their own way of going viral back then. :D

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
