
I think, I've seen it all now. Dimple Kapadia goes all slapstick-y. A fine actor turns to over-the-top acting to play an  ill-defined character. Nothing else can be as repulsive.  By now, we have gotten used to some of the other actors – Paresh Rawal, Nana Patekar and even Naseeruddin Shah once in a while - showing up in a film that considers even scratching the surface of their acting capabilities a crime. Getting a dignified actress like Dimple Kapadia to do so feels like a hit under the audience's belt. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It doesn't come as a surprise that she is the most restrained of them all. The other two main women in the film, Shruti Haasan and Ankita Srivastava are miraculously both central to the plot and completely irrelevant. If you can call a reformed goons, Uday (Nana Patekar) and Majnu (Anil Kapoor) finding himself a new sister to be married off a plot at all. 
In the first hour of the film or so, there seemed to be some coherence because everything that happened somehow revolved around getting the sister or themselves married. After a couple of rounds of sexual objectification and standing up against it, it all boils down to one thing – getting married.



Even the bigger goon, Wanted, yeah, that's his name (Naseeruddin Shah) is also focussed on getting his son married off. The son, is played by no less than Shiney Ahuja, wh o goes over board in being over board about anything he does in the film. 
As the movie moves into its last half hour or so though, everything becomes more and more bizarre. By now, the writers have even stopped trying to make sense. Sure, that was only a matter of time.  
I really don't know what to say. Why anyone thinks any of this is even remotely funny, I don't understand. Even the one-liners are WhatsApp forwards. A couple rare lines bring a smile. Sure, there were a few laughters in the theater. But, if I had to guess it would be more because they were laughing at the film rather than with it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
