
Are the makers of Phantom trying to  imply that if we bring enough style to our solution to world terror problems, someone with real authority will take notice? Then all they have to do is follow the film's plan.  Oh but wait, except that the terrorists have seen the film. That shouldn't be a problem though, right? I am sure the writers can come up with simplistic plans like these in a jiffy. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In my mind a thriller engages you completely for every minute of the film. Certainly not one that makes you go, “Hey wait, why is London's local news playing on Indian televisions?” or “They have gone so out of the way to make Katrina Kaif's hair look disheveled.” The reason you don't want to blink your eyes shouldn't be that you don't want to miss her losing her doll-face expression, just in case. 
Speaking of delight in disorder, our man, Saif Ali Khan, just doesn't lose or loosen his swag. Be it prison-wear or Pathani, every thing looks designer because of the way he carries it. But then again, so doesn't Bond, right? So, clearly we are going for the thriller angle more than the issue at hand – revenge for 26/11. 



I found the issue belittled in more ways than one. I understand that having a very close attachment to the event would have been cliché for  Nawaaz (Katrina Kaif). But her connection with the event seemed a little too much like a “first world problem”, like her favorite shopping place was bombed. How are you supposed to feel sorry for her? Her concern with Daniyal's (Saif Ali Khan) mission too seemed flippant, “oh you are killing Headley? Pretty neat!”
So, all I have to bank on to get myself involved with events is my personal angst at the real-life terror attacks. And anyone who isn't living in comic-book fantasy is not a matter of a few different passports with a gun in hand. 
Sure, the “smart” ways to take down a couple of the terrorists were interesting. But, the concept is still of pure revenge - misguided too. “A story you wish were true” has to be more than a marketing tagline, right? The film, like many others, assumes that the terror will die with a few people. If only world peace were that easy. Terrorists, unfortunately, are smarter than the writers of the film.  And there are more than a handful around. 
Even if you let go of sanity of the bigger picture, the little things are a bother too. Facts are repeated to help you make the connect. The filmmakers must be confident that the audience is not going to pay attention because the fact was mentioned 5 minutes ago. All it does is add minutes to the film that the film doesn't need. 
But hey, if you don't watch the film, the extra minutes won't bother you. So, here's an idea...

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
