
Within the first ten minutes you begin to wonder why a supposedly action film is going so, so slow. I am all for lingering lenses that allow you to take in the atmosphere, but nothing of that sort here. Except for some fast moving action choreography and editing, the rest of the movie is a drag which doesn't even lead any where.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The scene stays because the director is under the impression that unless he italicises, underlines, and emboldens every thing he wants to say we won't get it. For instance, just in case you didn't get that the finger ring a character is putting on is a happy memory or not, you have background music to confirm it for you. And this is only the beginning. 
This pretty much carries on for the rest of the film, though the pace picks up every so slightly in post-interval. This too is an illusion though. The story is still moving at snail pace towards the mother of all predictable climax sequences. But, at least there is action and the editing of the action scenes take charge.  There are a couple slick fights in the ring and a few moves that make you cringe and drop your jaw at the same time. One of them though suddenly moves a long shot making you wonder if it is to mask the fact that a stunt double was used.



Otherwise thought, both Siddharth Malhotra and Akshay Kumar are more or less restrained. Especially, when set against the loud background and dramatic camera movements. Jackie Shroff, on the other hand, gets annoying with his over-the-top drunkenness and attempt at sobriety. His ands though have given an ace performance (unless he had a “hands” double!). 
You are delighted to see Shefali Chhaya, but hshe looks like she wants to match Jackie Shroff in his overacting – line to line. Jackqueline Fernandes plays her usual prop self and Kareena Kapoor is worse than that. The moment I see a randomly placed item number, I read that as the writer/director telling me, “I don't have faith in my narrative/narration. So here you go, I think you will like this.” 
The other songs are plain soporific - excuses for montages to be used as moving the plot ahead. In my mind - lazy writing. There is decent scope for an internal struggle for each of the characters. Interestingly, each member of the Fernandes family has their own little island of sorrow. Each one is struggling between what they want to do and what they should do. 
Unfortunately, this is you reading a little too much in their situations, trying to get involved. Else, the movie is happy just telling you, “he is the underdog”, “he is the villain”, “he is the monster”. There is zero attempt at trying to let you discover that through their actions. 
I agree, films like Brothers need a certain amount of drama to accentuate the action. Such action to make sense in a film need an emotional hook too; else it will feel like you are watching a game on TV. But, this combination didn't work here. All you can recommend it for is the fight sequences when the film is on TV. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
