
Bangistan's trailer has already set-up the film for you. You know two suicide bombers out there are targeting the same religion conference. You know, they are exchanging religions, though you don't know why they need to do that. The movie doesn't make that clearer - which is a smaller issue considering the movie wants to talk about how beneath different dressing styles all religions are the same. We are all the same. We also know before the movie begins that this is all said in good humor, with satire. The film then has nothing new to say beyond this.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The satire wanes off in the first few minutes. After the initial America bashing while consuming products of corporate America, there is a mind-warping change of identities which lends to the satire for a bit. But after that there is nothing out of the ordinary. 
In fact, the performances too, stick to the usual format of over-the-top that seems to be a pre-requisite for satirical Hindi films. Riteish Deshmukh does try to bring in a bit of seriousness but then his character's seriousness seems like a misfit in the setting. 



Except this difference though Pulkit Samrat and Riteish Deshmukh's character are only clones of each other. And just in case you are wondering, Jacquiline Fernandes is barely a prop in the two and a half minutes she has on screen. 
Bangistan is one of those ideas that is really cool. But when you expand it into a 2+ hour film it tends to get repetitive. This is not to say there cannot be a film with this idea that could work, but then that would be a different film. As it stands, the only change that has the potential to make the film a must watch is to cut it short to about 85-90 minutes. Which is why it might be an okay watch while you are surfing channels
Bangistan made me realise the connection between satire and preachiness. Almost all satire has a “holier-than-thou” air about it that the parent-humor sarcasm carries. It is in a way talking down to its target audience. Except, that audience isn't even listening or will see through both the sarcasm and the lesson. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
