
How many times have you tried to do the right thing but have been bogged down by the trouble it will entail? And the times that might have crossed your mind would be a traffic violation or a tricky one in a social situation. Here we have Bajrangi (Salman Khan) - who is a vegetarian Hindu brahman (cast of the priests), who lives by some of the rules Lord Hanuman set for himself – in charge of a 6 year old girl, who not only eats non-vegetarian, but is also a Muslim; who is not only a Muslim, but is from Pakistan! Director, Kabir Khan has tried to sensitize the audience to an issue that is not easy to approach. But, other than that the film takes way too long to tell its tale, which makes a trip to the theater not worth the buck or the time. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It does take some amount of bravado to show a person kissing a Pakistan flag and cheering for the Pakistan cricket team. The message of love between the two nations is a valuable one and a very important one too. Fortunately, it is not shoved down your throat like a sermon. Bajrangi Bhaijaan sticks to the narrative and says what it wants to say through the narrative. 
Now, the way it goes about its business is too simplified. I am an optimist and a romantic and would love to see it happen but there is just no way, any one is crossing the India-Pakistan border in either direction under the army's eye, let alone without a visa AND passport – just because they see the goodness of the heart.  



And Salman Khan plays the good-naturedness believably. In fact, the one thing that the film tries to push with all its might is how good Salman Khan is. 
It does help that  Bajrangi Bhaijaan doesn't have the usual trappings of a Salman Khan film – the smart-aleckry, the action sequences, the signature Salman expressions – basically, Bajrangi Bhaijaan doesn't have an overdose of Salman Khan. 
In fact, if someone were to ask me what the film is about, I'd first say loving solution to India-Pakistan border issues. Then little Harshaali Malhotra, the child actress, who knows a thing or two about acting already. And only then would I think of it as a Salman Khan film.  
Oh and Kareena Kapoor was barely even a prop. So, were the song and dance sequences. Breath-taking cinematography of the Himalayas aside, these things made the film just too long. Maybe, the melodrama gets you a little involved with Shahida (Harshaali Malhotra) getting home, but the balance tips to the wrong side with the elongated drama. 
I wonder if the traits the film banks on - innocence and good-natured honesty – would have had a better impact if it were not diluted by this drama. Even so, if the film manages to sensitize even a fraction of a percent of Salman fans to treating people from the other country with compassion, it would have done its job.  If only that were the solution to world problems that are only getting worse by the decade – being good, or being human even.
~ ~ ~
ps. I really question a child actor being made to play a scene in a brothel. I admit the setting didn't really have any thing to suggest it is a brother if taken by itself. Hopefully, she didn't know anything about the sequence.  But, what when she sees the film?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
