
For just a bit there I thought ABCD 2 is going to turn out to be a musical. As Varun Dhawan's character,  Suru wonderfully expresses his pain to his mother in a dance form. But nope. That excitement soon washed away as it becomes clear that movie is only and only about the dance competition. Haven't we had enough dance films with the same ol' underdog story? The worse bit is that the story has less and less meat with every film. With ABCD 2 though, at least there are quite a few hip hop dance sequences that look novel and catch your imagination and attention. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In that context, if all you are looking for is hip hop dance, then you will be more than satiated. In almost every dance sequence there is one move that makes your jaw drop and wonder if it was real or some camera trickery. 
Beyond that though, the hip hop music itself seems repetitive. Also, while the dances that build up towards the climax have something or the other interesting about them, the climax itself is quite lame – both in terms of the dance sequence itself and the story. 



In fact, the final formation of the last dance came together clumsily and wasn't to the beat at all, and quite intentionally so. While this bothered me, its play in the story - which is of little consequence anyway – was even worse. The writing is neglected so bad that when there is no dance on screen, the scenes drag. 
And very little of that can be blamed on the actors. The performers are all in top form as far as the dancing goes. The hard work shows in their effortless dances. Fortunately or unfortunately, there isn't much of a demand from them in the acting department. With character sketches that look like they were written on the go, if at all. And a story that seems to be built because there was a sudden realisation that it didn't exist. 
But hey, ABCD 2 is blatant about how little it cares for the writing. And it's very clear about its passion for hip hop.  So, if you don't care about the story and are looking for groovy hip hop moves, ABCD 2 is just the right thing for you.  

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
