
So much for expecting intense love because there is so much pain in the trailer. For films that make you look forward to them after the trailer, the least you can say is – all the good bits were in the trailer, leaving nothing new in the film. Hamar Adhuri Kahani gives you no such pleasure by making the intensity snicker-worthy and way too mushy for its own good.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I'm no cynic. Hardly. But, I ain't being swept off the floor by over-dramatized, loud background music and filmy dialogue either. Even if it is being pretended to be said with the utmost sincerity and puppy eyes. The romantic in me needs to the story behind the sadness. I can't just be told “She's sad. He's sadder and oh he's saddest.” Mind you, these lines aren't being said by a voiceover, but by the characters themselves. 
Even if you don't hear it out loud it is like one character says to another after having heard of the latter's pain, “I see your tragedy and I raise you to my horrific past.” And guess what? You as an audience, never really get into the thick of the sadness. 



It takes the romance out of pain in love. Could there be a worse crime?
Don't I need to see why Vasudha's (Vidya Balan) value system is so strongly ignited when what I know of her actually is that she doesn't believe in it? Don't I need to know why Aarav (Emraan Hashmi) thinks he is devoid of love and affection when what I see is a mother who loves him immensely? Well, even if I haven't been told the opposite, don't I need to be shown why Hari (Rajkummar Rao) is the hateful misogynist he is and yet claims to make the woman of his life so important that he manipulates his whole life around her? Not to mention, why are all of them martyrs? And where did all the feminism come from suddenly? The film was most certainly not about that. 
None of the failures above can be blamed on the actors. They all play sad to the best of their abilities. Their only fault might be that they create zero chemistry – of hatred or of love. But, I'd think the actors saw the film as a lost cause scene after scene and just couldn't muster the juice out. 
Be done with it – looks like their attitude towards the film - a sentiment echoed in the audience. I could sense, that the houseful 200-seater was waiting in anticipation for something to like about the film. I know I was. As one ridiculously mushy line followed the other, I picked on one that was said randomly by a side character and I will say that is my takeaway from the film. 
har naam pe nahi rukte,
dhadkano ke bhi usuul hote hai
(Not every name manages to skip a beat, heartbeats have rules of their own.)

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
