
Any intrigue that the witty dialogue and unusual story line from the trailer might have created is thwarted with the tacky opening credit sequence and loud initial few minutes. Yet a hopeful viewer waits for the real story to kick in. Even when that happens, it doesn't take off from there and that is a real shame. Because, the premise could really have been exploited – both because it is new and by itself has a lot of meat that can be sliced and diced in many different ways - the two Indians find themselves in Pakistan.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But, the route chosen – loud and all-over-the-place – is more a reminder of a run-of-the-mill Hindi slapstick that has neither head nor tail and just meanders about. Instead, you'd expect more satire from a movie that has such a political context. Welcome 2 Karachi botches up individual scenes that could have been remarkably funny, insightful and satirical too. 
Usually, with Arshad Warsi in the mix, you are at the very least guaranteed good comic timing. While there are a couple of laugh out loud moments (especially if you haven't seen the trailer), for the rest, Arshad Warsi comes across as loud and insufferable. Jacky Bhagnani brings in a laugh or two too, but I couldn't figure out why he seemed drunk through the film. While I understand, he was supposedly playing stupid, he came across more as a stupid person who sways a little too much for a person who has had his last drink a few days ago. Again, these few scenes that work, have no context whatsoever.



Similarly, I understand films of this nature work on shoe-string budgets. Even so, the production is too tacky. We have many a example to show that limited resources do not necessarily have to mean cheap/cheesy visuals. 
Welcome 2 Karachi ends up being one of those that make you go, “What on earth is going on!?”and even when you are expecting the worst you want to yell, “This is not what I had signed up for.”

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
