
A non-believer is made to try on religion for size due to social and emotional pressures. Off late we've seen a couple of films that go on to rebuke blind faith and they've done a decent job too. In fact, both PK and OMG have been referenced to in Dharam Sankat Mein. I was bracing up for yet another film along the same lines. While Dharam Sankat Mein is different in the way in which the religious dilemma presents itself, it turns out long-winded, rather instructional and most importantly underwhelming. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I am all for subtlety and am not looking for melodrama, but with a premise as this, Dharam Sankat Mein ought to have had a crescendo which is lacking. Our protagonist, Dharam (pun intended and works at multiple levels) is not so much of an atheist as he is a person who doesn't identify with blind faith. He doesn't care too much for the religion he belongs to. 
Yet, the writer subtly slides in the nature of our society by having him make nasty remarks about another religion. True to his nature, Dharam does become neutral as the situation demands. And I loved how his precarious  situation plays out, where agnostic Dharam ends up having to understand more than one religions.  



Beyond this basic smartness in the writing though, the film falls limp very soon. The stage is set early on and you are waiting for something to happen, which doesn't. The two opposing directions that Dharam gets pulled into are not convincing enough for a man who is pretty comfortable with who he is. Somehow you can't visualise a person like Dharam submitting to anything meekly. The item numbers and shabby climax don't help either. 
Also, the film becomes preachy all too often. This indirectly breaks the fourth wall and jolts  you from a common middle class man's uncommon story into the film you are watching. This is despite yet another perfect common man portrayal by Paresh Rawal. Yet another film that he carries broadly on his shoulder. 
Even so, I appreciate the fact that despite the preachy nature of the film, a different approach was endeavoured. More power to such trials even if not many of us are taken in by them. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
