
Mubarakan is a little more coherent then other Anees Bazmee films. Now, whether I felt that way because I was determined to not let my brain come in the way of all-precious enjoyment or whether it was intentional on the makers part, we will never know. But, I am willing to let go of credit to my effort. Even so, “more coherent than other Anees Bazmee films” doesn't really mean much, does it?

                        Except for the slight improvement in story, the genre goes on with the rest.
                    
Mistaken identities, misunderstandings multiplied by characters who insist on looking at the obvious – Mubarakan is full of them. But, I just didn't find any of it funny. In fact, huge chunks of the film were more dramatic than humorous. For most of the film, characters are worried about a lie being found out. Only to cover it up with another lie. The only thing that was meant to be funny was Kartar Singh's (Anil Kapoor) attempt at using metaphors.
One of the most difficult things to consume about these films is that they are all about a wedding or someone getting married. There is hardly anything outside of this realm in Mubarakan. Then it is difficult not to fume over things like the expected subservience of the ladies involved. This one went a step backward in having the girl's father foot the wedding bill. It has been a while since I've seen this one in this genre of films. I was wondering if we had progressed that bit, where at least they don't talk about it in pop culture. Unfortunately, it came across more matter-of-factly than satire.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The performances were in line with whatever is expected from this genre of Hindi films – loud and over-the-top. I was pleasantly surprised that Ratna Pathak Shah could have some grace because her character wasn't completely caricatured. Same goes for the actor who plays Pawan Malhotra's wife. 
So, except for the slight improvement in story, the genre goes on with the rest. Thankfully, It doesn't have the slapstick that we have come to expect. The song and dance aren't that upbeat. I am not sure then why even someone who likes the genre would watch this one. Me? My worries take me into the future. 



Today, I saw two films that are lesser known chapters in Indian history – one from 40+ years ago and the other from 70+ years ago. Irrespective of the quality of the films and their accuracy, compared to those times and the sacrificers the generations before us made to just survive, we live in superbly liberated times. I wonder what a film 30-40 years later about today's times would look like. Would it feel like they are living in better times than now? I surely hope they don't think our live were like the third film I saw today. shudder

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
