
You wait for the plot to thicken or a twist that will be different from what you expect. But, it doesn't quite happen. So, you end up admiring the attempt at creating the era of the 40s. I also found myself marveling at the fact that the project didn't get YRiF-ied. But, the thriller by itself is hardly edge-of-seat material.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, maybe, not all thrillers need to keep you tense through the run-time. But, you need something to look forward to, especially when you have guessed whodunnit in the character's first appearance on screen. I was hoping to clap with glee to find out I was wrong and at the same time could hear myself say, “No chance!” Unfortunately, the latter part of me won. 
Fortunately, while I waited then for the inevitable reveal, there was quite a bit I could distract myself with. Maybe it is just our need for something different, but the old-world indeed has its own charm. The rusty, rugged “reality”. Sure, a lot of attention to detail. But every once in a while, you are jolted out of the era, whether it be a bold sexual attempt by a lady or music that is a tad too modern. 



The performances though keep you steadfast, willing you to see the film through to the end. Neeraj Kabi holds your interest from the beginning. And so does Swastika Mukherjee, even if it is forceful titillatio, she's there to do a job and she does it well. 
Sushant Singh Rajput, of course, fits the bill perfectly. As he gets excited by the mystery, disappointed when he doesn't “get it”, grossed out at different points in the film, you know his character, Byomkesh Bakshy just a bit more. 
This is as important as the mystery itself – knowing the investigator, your protagonist. Especially, if the writers are aspiring to turn this into a series, which they clearly are. Byomkesh Bakshy, the character does create enough interest for you to want to watch his next adventure, even if the first one by itself wasn't enticing. 
Dibaker Banerjee scored alright then, didn't he? You want to watch the next one, even though the first one leaves you underwhelmed. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
