
Hunterrr's sex comedy bit is just the garnishing. To make the dish look palatable and draw you into the theater. No wonder you don't see much more than what you've already seen in the trailers. So, those of us going in to see our sexual needs represented in a comic way will be disappointed because that bit you've already seen in the promos. Those of us going in for the story of a boy who grew up like us or the romance will see nothing new because you've seen it in some other film.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And I have an inkling the writers were very aware of this. Only that can explain the back and forth in timelines. Usually, non-linearity is very intriguing and works brilliantly in building up to the climax. But, in Hunterrr after a point, I stopped caring. It didn't matter when Mandar dated which woman. Woman after woman till present day. He shows no disrespect to any woman but has his priorities right – and understandably so. It is ok for the emotional hook and identification with characters to be missing. But, here it is complete disinterest in how his life turns out or what events lead up to that. Also, the scenes where the audience is being twirled between imagination and reality get a little tedious. Except for some witty dialogue (most of which again you have seen in the trailer), the writing misses target.
Protagonist Mandar (Gulshan Devaiah) is a guy on the street who is always looking out for women. Not to be confused with “watching out for women” – just in case the word 'protagonist' in the context of a Hindi film, threw you off. He's the guy who looks at women in a way that'd make women uncomfortable. But for some reason, none of the women he looks at in the film experience discomfort with his attention. I guess the player that he is, he knows his way around. 



If it were not for the performances, the novelty of Hunterrr would have died down very quickly turning it into a very sleazy affair. Gulshan Devaiah gives the creeps and goes shy in sync with the need of the scene. As a natural progression, there is a certain amount of tackiness in the way he approaches the women. But hey, if the women don't mind his overtures, you respect their choice and accept the events. Which in turn means that all the women are convincing. Radhika Apte has a certain ease with which she performs. You end up believing her reactions in the weirdest of situations (across films). 
Other than that, there are some social references in the film which are rather overt – from safe sex to child sex abuse or paternal abuse of girl child to our preference for the fair when it comes to the fairer gender and so on. These seem out of place because the film is otherwise very comfortable in its space of sex comedy. 
These other things kind of jump out as awkward in trying to prove that the film is more than what it is – a justification for sexual gestures and norms from groping to men befriending women with only one intention; it is all a part of growing up, you see. Fortunately for the film and unfortunately for real life, this explanation is how it is. Only some boys become men sooner rather than later. 
Sure, we do need films that talk about sexuality – both male and female. There is a lot of talk about representing the sexual needs of women in films. But, the sexual needs of men too aren't addressed other than in the context of rape. Hunterrr is fresh in that context. Beyond that though, it is a regular coming-of-age plus love story. Not very interesting once you get past the “different” part of the background.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
