
Almost everyone who is reading this review is in or has had a romantic relationship like you see in Bewakoofiyaan. And it would be a rare couple, if at all, who hasn't had a fight. Would our story make for a good film though? Most likely, not. Not because we make for boring people but because it's everyday life. So, does everyday life not make for good films? It does, but it needs very special skills and an out-of-the-box way to go about the story to make for an engaging story. Bewakoofiyaan is not that story.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Bewakoofiyaan has an energetic, aspirational, young couple in Mohit (Ayushman Khurana) and Mayera (Sonam Kapoor). You relate to them because they are more or less like you. You start rooting for them from the very beginning. Ayushman Khurana's comic timing and chemistry with father-in-law-to-be (Rishi Kapoor) keeps matters light and engaging for a bit. 
But, soon enough things start getting repetitive and before you know it, you have started predicting the next sequence pretty accurately. Ayushman Khurana does go through the whole "down" time pretty convincingly. Sonam Kapoor too goes does the middle class lady who takes her success in stride while being a supporting girlfriend and a caring daughter with ease. 



But decent performances by the three main characters cannot life the film from the general bore that it is. Sure, Bewakoofiyaan does try to be different in how the adamant father's reluctance to warm up to the daughter's boyfriend. The lead pair's characters are also pretty close to earth in an urban way.
Mohit  adequately goes through the phases of over-confidence, confidence, insecure and then bruised ego as any young man who has lost his job would. Mayera is always there for Mohit, aspirational yet in control of those aspirations. It can be argued that she sacrifices her career goals and isn't the woman of today's day and age she is made out to be. But, I'd give the writers that. I'd say Mayera knows what are priorities are and doesn't care how we judge her for them. 
It is a shame then, that despite characters written with more thought than you would see in your average Hindi rom-com, Bewakoofiyan ultimately falls below par. A huge part of the blame can be taken by the film's pace. The love between the couple, the father's sweet reluctance takes its time to build up. The fallout between the couple while the father-son-in-law relationship takes its own turn is cumbersome yet not intolerable. 
The problem is with the climax which is both rushed and over-simplistic in its writing and execution. Especially, when compared to the rest of the film. The same old clichés kick in with double force which makes you feel, you sat through all of that for this? 
With very little going for it in the music and other technical departments then, Bewakoofiyaan feels like listening to a friend's woes about their relationship - with empathy and love; but you want them to kiss and patch up, already. So, that you can move on too. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
