
Do you fall in love and get married or get married and then learn to love? What if you learn to hate instead of learn to love? What if the whole thing starts in one's resentment towards the other for no fault of the others? What's new about it anyway? Not in India, anyway. What makes Dum Laga Ke Haisha such a warm film, then? A film which has characters that wear their weaknesses on their sleeves to make the film charmingly close to real life – save for the climax, of course. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Prem aka Lappu (Ayushmann Khurrana) has been no good at academics and loves Kumar Sanu. He is pretty much considered good for nothing by all around and in return is cynical about the world around. Sandhya (Bhumi Pednekar) is educated, mature and is submissive but won't take nonsense lying down either. She's a woman's woman who has no self-worth issues. 
She is also not the conventional definition of good-looking either. And therein lies the crux of the conflict in the film. With very little to go on, other than gut-feel an arranged marriage relies a whole lot on how the other person looks. And Prem gets pressurized into marrying someone who he doesn't like at first look. So, why does he get married at all? Well, he is considered a good for nothing, remember? And what voice does a suppressed lad have when he has achieved little in life, right?



That there is a pointer at the scores of social dynamics in an arranged marriage – pressure, gut, looks, submissiveness and so on. Dum Laga Ke Haisha has captured it all so well and in just the right measure to not make it dramatic and yet keeping you completely engrossed. 
Sure, it falls into the historic, cop-out trap of both a quick, convenient finish and dramatizing the events. But it tries. It tries with the right ingredients that work well – conversations in a relationship. Unfortunately, there aren't enough of them to make events believable. I understand, there is always the risk of too many conversations and the danger of the run-time slipping across the two-hour zone. But, the balancing act left a little something lacking. 
Fortunately, it wasn't the performances. Of course, no film about ordinary domestic squabbles can manage to create warmth without ace acting by all involved. And that is exactly what Dum Laga Ke Haisha has. From the lead roles to the ones on the side you know which one is likely to behave in what sort of a way in the given situation. The bitterness, the selfishness, the momentary pleasure and the pain all come through.
Yet, Dum Laga Ke Haisha is not a very serious film. Sure, it addresses a social flaw and how the people that make the same society are coping with it. At the same time it isn't too satirical or dark. It brings a smile because the characters have their quirks and keeps you interested because the characters are like you and me, only with different quirks. What else can one ask from a film that aims to do exactly that! And this once I mean that in a nice way. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
