
Just in case you missed it in the trailer, the movie sends at least three reminder pleas asking you to remember it is not about logic when it is magic. Through the movie you wonder what part of it was expecting to be called magic – the bright, fairy-tale-like, shoddy  computer-generated graphics; the histrionics of a ghost; or the superhuman power that allows for a fourth episode in this series. My mind which, ironically worked a little too hard to let go of logic, could only see the makers attempt at providing logic where none was expected. 

                        Thankfully though, both Tabu and Parineeti Chopra look quite uncomfortable being a part of this film. Tabu repeatedly apologized through her dialogue too. Or maybe it is just me and my wishful thinking.
                    
It is indeed a fair attempt in trying to build a story around ghosts. Unsurprisingly though, it neither makes you laugh nor appreciate the effort. In fact, the writing is often repetitive as the ghost demonstrates its existence or when scenes over-explain. The jokes too are often stretched too far, stifling the smile that had just begun to erupt. A lot of it is also repetitions from the previous editions. And some humor, such as the use of Ku Klux Klan costumes, is completely lost on me. There are other scenes that are  just so silly that you can't help laugh at the silliness - this is the essence of  a Golmaal film, so even if I don't enjoy it I've stopped minding it. But, what we are not used to is the semblance of a plot. 
As a safety measure, the film even throws in a couple of social messages – anti-superstition statements are well-pronounced and there is even a flippant, “educate your girl child” line. I didn't know if I should laugh or cry at this last one. A pro-girl-education slogan when the two women characters, of the 10-12 people in the main cast, were treated rather shabbily. Parineeti Chopra's character is muted out through half the film because, you know, the man oggling at her is so mesmerized by her that he can only see her and not hear her. On the other end, Tabu's character is delegated to voice-over through a lot of her part too. All things aside, the makers didn't even bother to get female singers while they show these two sing in a group song! And of course there is objectification in songs, one with kids too! That these two were given strong characters then seems like poor lip service. Also, the hideous father-daughter hooking-up jokes don't help at all. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Of course, there is Shreyas Talpade's lisp and Tusshar Kapoor's aa-ee-ooooo which is shameful but they continue to do it well. Ajay Devgn seems jaded. Arshad Warsi tries very hard to make his presence felt and Kunal Khemu exists. Tabu and Parineeti Chopra do act like they are shouldering the film, which is quite the truth too. 
I watched Golmaal Again in a single screen theater in one of Maharashtra's northern villages. The men:women ratio was about 99:1 in this almost 500-seater. Usually, people hoot, whistle and dance irrespective of what is going in the film. My usual city-girl gripe is that the sound is atrocious and no one complains about it. It is a good, annual reality check. This is how most of India's audience watches its films. This time around again, the movie started off with hardly audible sound. But, I was pleasantly surprised when there was a shout out from the audience for better sound and the projectionist did his best! People were actually interested in the dialogue. There were huge parts of the film where the audience was watching and listening attentively too! I am not sure though if that is a good thing for the film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
