
You aren't expecting reality when the film is titled Luck. To top it off the font chosen for the title has diamonds and the U jets out to make a horse shoe. There's still some hope that each character's life has a passable amount of luck. But almost ALL the characters have this insurmountable amount of luck except that it's not enough for them to have enough mullah. But that too has its purpose, you see. It's so that they can play the "biggest game". And thus starts the "reality show".





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And this is only interval. Yes, the entire first half is shot like it is setting up the characters. And the second half is shot like it is setting up the situation, the story. I just hope the idea isn't to have a sequel "Lucky again". But for this one it means every character, every event, every frame is stylized. It all looks very smart. But an excess of anything is bad holds true here too. It gets tiring and overbearing. 
It was likely, or at the very least there was a chance that this style would have worked if the film was shorter. But no such luck! (Damn! Can I please say 'No pun intended'?) The issue was that the individual episodes in the story were not predictable, though the overall story was. Not to mention the extremely cheesy and obvious one-liners which were also translated every once in a while. The voiceover in the first five minutes should be a good give away of the non-sense that is to come. Also looks like the challenge was to have the word luck or a synonym thereof in every second sentence. And unfortunately, the writer won! 
An action flick, a supposed thriller - you don't really expect ace acting. And that's what you get - non-ace acting. It was disheartening to see Danny play second fiddle, especially when the last I saw him was in Frozen. The rest do their usual bit. Sanjay plays a don-like role. Imraan Khan continues from Kidnap and Chitrashi Rawat from Chak De! India. Shruti Haasan plays the sex appeal and I guess, it works. Acting I can't see. Ravi Kissen is the insufferable sleazy character. Do you feel love or hatred for any of the characters? Na-a-ah! 
By the way, be warned this para is sort-of giving the movie away. But it is infuriating that a writer had a serial-killer character (possibly rapist) not only escape the death sentence but also be respectfully set free! (ba-izzat bari, my ....!) 
Seriously, the premise and the broad sub-plots are very interesting indeed. The execution isn't all bad either. But the details in terms of characterizations or dialogues are the pits. And it makes you cry for sanity. And the climax is the mother of all ridiculous climaxes. Even for a film that is far away from reality, the climax seemed completely out of place. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
