
“A story tells you a lot about the writer.” is a running thought through Roy. Almost forcing you to think that a film tells you a lot about the director. You can tell director, Vikramjit Singh is struggling to tell his story, just like his character Kabir Grewal (Arjun Rampal), a director is struggling with his film's narrative. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Roy is not a thriller. It is a romantic film. In fact, it is two romantic love stories that try hard to intertwine and mingle. Unfortunately, this connect doesn't work at all. I can imagine it having worked at the hands of a better narrator but, here you can barely see the parallels even when you are trying hard.
The mystique around the two stories as is created in the trailer, is demystified very early on in the film. Only that it is not intentional. In fact, the big reveal feels neither big nor that much of a reveal when it comes about. 



The film lingers. Not in a good way though. It could be to accentuate the characters. All four lead characters are brooders, the male more so than the female ones. Interestingly enough, the film feels very verbose. 
Despite the long silences, when the characters speak, there is a good chance it is an attempt at something deep and philosophical. This is great, especially because there are very few films that can say they have non-inane dialogue. But sadness is, the lines meant to be meaningful and introspective turns out inconsequential. 
I have always complained that Hindi films don't have enough conversations, it has only dialogue. It is refreshing to see characters actually converse in Roy. Individually, the conversations are interesting, but they don't add up to making the film engaging. The lines are not boring but the film stretches on to “nothing happening”. Again not in a good way.
It doesn't help that the writing of the “romance” parts is weak. You have no clue what Aisha is on about. You know that Kabir and his character Roy are going through an internal struggle that is a source of their forlorn attitude. But, neither you nor the writers get quite a grapple over why the inner voice is  so troubled.
What does keep you going despite disappointment at not being able to fathom what is happening and why are the performances. Arjun Rampal finally comes out of the wooden mould and lets his eyes speak and they speak volumes. A lot of the internal conflict you can sense is through his expression and body language rather than the character's thoughts that come out as dialogue. 
Jacqueline Fernandez too is less of a doll and has a little more to do with her character. It would've been great if her role was a little more detailed. The most intriguing of the lot, you could call Ranbir Kapoor's performance as holding just one expression. But there is this one scene where the hopelessness of his life turns into hope and you can see the light in his eye change without a movement of a facial muscle. 
But none of it good enough to make you endure 2.5 hours of “so much talk” leading to pretty much nothing. It is almost as if the filmmakers had a sense of this too. What else can explain the fillers in the form of songs and the fight sequence that seems to have been made just to be able to promote the film as a thriller.
Even if you give the film a point or two extra for attempting something different, you can't escape the fact that it is on the borderline of making very little sense. Different ain't good enough. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
