
It is great to learn something that you didn't know about through a film. It is great to learn that there was a scientist who tried to get a plane to fly before the people we know it – the Wright Brothers. It is also awesome to know that the secret was written down in ancient scriptures. Whether or not it was true or has sound grounds is a matter of debate that is beyond the scope of this review. In either case, it matters not which nationality the scientist belonged to nor does it matter which religion the scriptures originated from. (Can text books belong to a religion anyway?) Was India even one nation when the text was written? But, the point of Hawaizaada seems to be to say, “we first, we first!” Not to mention that the film says that over more than 2.5 hours.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Hawaizaada might just have passed of as a sweet story had it been shorter. A one-line plot summary would be “A man wanted to build an airplane.” And while it alludes to the freedom struggle, family dynamics, romance etc, the film despite having one point to focus on is all over the place. The romantic moments as do the patriotic ones make you go, “Huh? Where did that come from?” The emotions on display are too strong compared to the mild build-up. 
The background music and the sets are way too theatric to make you take anything in the film seriously. The film is too bright and sharp for us to believe it is the 19th century. Sure, films themselves are to blame to make us believe that those were rustic times. But, it is distracting for sure and makes you feel you are watching a play rather than a film. 



The language too seems a little too contemporary. At other times times the director attempts childish comedy under the garb of Chaplin-esque. Ayushman Khurana has his charm but it is getting old now. Also, it is a rare male actor who can cry well on screen, and he is not one of them. Mithun Chakraborty carries the eccentricity well, when it is asked of him. But it is uneven – the asking, not the doing. Pallavi Sharda's existence in the film makes it a not-so brave film. 
If the idea was to make a film because the concept of an Indian having made the first plane to fly was so appealing why did it need the lady prop? That shows lack of conviction. With an audience that is eager to lap up any film that has novel concepts, it was worth trying this one without making it a musical. 
Another hint that the film tries to appeal to a populist sentiment is having Ayushman Khurana speak in Marathi. Authenticity would be a wrong argument to make because no one other than his character Shivi speaks in Marathi, including his parents. It's not like he continuously speaks in Marathi either. So, not only was the first man to fly a plane an Indian, he spoke Marathi too! It would be really sad if this move was to break the actor's North Indian boy image. Yet, I will look forward to his next film,  because he chooses films that are not the norm. 
And that is the only thing that works for Hawaizaada - something different was attempted. Despite all its pitfalls, Hawaizaada attempts at telling the story of a carefree, wayward, rich, spoilt brat who is also smart and sharp when it interests him. And he went on to fly a plane. Patriotism and national pride aside. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
