
One of the main ingredients of a thriller that actually thrills ought to be a new revelation every once in a while. Zid doesn't even try. Sure, there are new things happening, but the suspects remain the same, the new events reinforce the suspicion on all the suspects equally. Interestingly enough, the reason you suspect people other than the story is trying to point a finger at vehemently, is because the film is so strongly doing so. By doing these things in combination and with a 2+ hour run-time, Zid doesn't keep your attention and you lose interest altogether by the end. Sure, the final twist is a good one, especially with what it implies about what you've been seeing so far. But unfortunately, it comes a little to late. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Another thing that got to me was the spooky, horror-style treatment given to the film. We are not talking about haunted houses or unhappy, troubled spirits. So, I didn't quite understand why have an environment that makes you look out for a ghost through the film. 
Such horror films are known to be associated with some amount of sexual content too. Zid doesn't disappoint on the quantity it has on offer. The quality though is completely missing in terms of chemistry between the two involved. While you could fault the actors for that bit, it's not that they can't act at all. 



You see some hope in Karanvir Sharma because he shows great restraint when there was every scope to go over the board. While Mannara compensates for that bit by over-doing the crazy bit, every once in a while, she shows a slight change of expression which tells you she can do a good act if that's what she was directed to do. Shraddha Das on the other hand, holds just one expression - with the typical, sex-horror film glaze in her eye that every other lady in a film of this genre carries. 
That aside, the writing just doesn't engage you like a thriller should. It tries the known hooks that horror movies usually opt for when they know they can't keep you involved - cleavage and sex. Tells you how confident the makers were in the story they had to tell, which incidentally they try to boast about - their narrative capabilities. Unfortunately, it shows a lack thereof. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
