
You find yourself siding with a con-artist. Not just a person who dupes the other of money. She robs  emotions, feelings and wears the thievery on her sleeve. She takes offense when she hasn't been able to win someone over with her charm. She takes it up as a challenge that has to be won. Not a very likeable attitude for a person you would know in real life. Yet, you cheer for the screen her. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In a sense, you feel her liberation and you are with her when she says, she might find more freedom in a prison than being locked in a marriage. Especially, given how possessive the recipients of her fake-affection get. 
Yet, not much of your involvement can be attributed to much about the film. It is very difficult to figure out what exacly makes you root for Dolly. The dialogue isn't very interesting, neither is  its delivery. There isn't much striking about the other departments of the film either. The music is the kind you'd find in every other film. 



Sonam Kapoor in the lead comes across very stiff, even a little more than her usual self. Sure, the side actors do their bit well from Rajkummar Rao to Archana Puran Singh, but none of the characters have enough depth to make themselves believable. 
Even a shallow character like Archana Puran Singh's can evoke an emotion if written better. It is this mixture that confuse your loyalties. The victims of the con-artists' con-job are not very likeable. Then, it all boils down to Sonam Kapoor's persona itself – the actor, not the character she plays. Her face, the fact that she is the lead lady, takes away from the film. 
Sure, there is nothing wrong with liking the anti-hero. But, somehow it kept me distracted through the film. I don't like the character so much, then why do I want her to get away with it? And yet again, I find myself liking a film more than I usually would because of what I didn't “get” about the film. The only thing I know for sure is I enjoyed the overall concept and felt a liberation of sorts with the way the film ended. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
