
It's Pakistan incessantly organizing terrorist attacks in India. It's an Indian daredevil hero, who is almost a superhero. He is single-handedly taking the enemy out. What's not to like about the story? Even if it's predictable it has enough action sequences where the bad guy gets beaten up for you to feel good about yourself as a nation. The hero's victory is somehow your victory. All of this we expected from the film. What worked for me was the heart pounding through most of the second half. Even if, this one is no A Wednesday, especially in terms of having a  relatively tight plot, Baby has a few strong sequences that keep the suspense on.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In fact, the said sequences can be thought of as short stories by themselves. The episode in Nepal and then the one in Saudi Arabia were, save for a scene or two, gripping from end-to-end. And this is even when you know any sequence has only two possible outcomes. It helps that the villain seems capable of anything. He (they) is ruthless and has no regard for human life, let alone sentiment. 
These sequences also make the film a little episodic though. It is a good thing then that the episodes are linked to one another, even if only serially. More like bogies of a train, lacking the character of pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. 



There are points at which Baby seems to go high on drama, but there are many other times that were ripe for drama but it was avoided, adding an edge to the narrative. It also helps that none of the performances, except maybe the whole wife-angle, are dramatic. It is not a routine slice of life, it is the story of covert operations and spies and all things related. 
Yet, you cannot let go of the fact, that Baby as a film doesn't show you anything new. It keeps you glued to your seat, but does it offer something that you've never seen before? No. Does it keep you glued through and through the 2.5+ hours of the film? No. The first half makes you shift in your seat rather than bring you on the edge. 
Yet, by far it is one of the most thrilling films in the last year or so. I don't remember the last time I was nervous for the hero (that too, one played by Akshay Kumar) even though I knew more or less where the film was headed. To top it off, for a good hour or so. It ain't new, yet it keeps you glued. That counts for quite a bit. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
