
All I'd have liked to say about Tevar is that it is a typical action masala film. It's up to you what to make of it. If you like the kind of action where story is ancillary and more a matter of convenience than the core of the film, then you will enjoy this one. If not, you won't. It is in fact as simple as that.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Given the film's title, by default, every character in the film carries an attitude about them, including the villain's sidekick. Except, except the lead lady. She is one who needs constant protection and taking care of. The tiny bit of attitude that she is allowed to carry for one-tenth of a second is instantaneously over-powered by someone else's attitude. 
The one-liner boy meets girl story has an extension - boy meets girl when she is running away from a crazy and powerful thus dangerous admirer. You would think that the extension adds just the right amount of salt and pepper to give you a decent film. But, all this is a set-up for the other kind of masala. The one which has random fist and sword fights; some long and some longer chases and a few songs to complete the circle. 
Though conceptually, the romance seems to be central to the plot, in reality it just feels like a fallback option, "if we don't have them fall in love with each other, what will we do? What will they do?" Fortunately, the actors themselves take their jobs seriously. 
Arjun Kapoor says his dialogue with a way too much style for my taste, but then that is what the title of the film demands. I like this avatar of Sonakshi Sinha better than her boisterous, loud-mouthed version in this genre of films. What would really be nice though, is she break through to something completely different. We will wait for that film. Manoj Bajpai, as expected, is in complete element as the eccentric, egomaniac, obsessed lover. 
Unfortunately, it is not because how well the character is written. It is only his doing and commitment to the character. But, it is blatant. It can be considered as a positive - that a film is very aware that it is not trying very hard to tell a story as much as it wants to show some action and that is pretty much its purpose. It doesn't quite work for me though.
Which is why, Tevar is one of those. Those who want to like it, will enjoy it come what may. Others can fret and fume all they like. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
