
Rajkumar Hirani has a knack for attacking a problem headon but with a smile. As usual the issue is important, and given the events of this week, it is of global significance, though PK doesn't necessarily spread its wings that far. While the jokes are slightly on the lame side, the point made is powerful even if readers of this site might not be the direct target audience for the arguments.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Most of the citybred, Generation Next a la the multiplex audience is already on the story-tellers' side. We would make the same arguments in a coffee table conversation. But the beauty here is Hirani keeps it simple. With single-minded focus he attacks the problem, quite literally, using child-like innocence. 
His use of humor, didn't make me laugh or even smile, but the entire theater was in splits, especially most of the first half. For matters of such importance, that most people are getting more and more right of center about without thinking it through, it is just important to get the audience to listen. So, whatever works. 



What worked for me the most is that PK was PK and not Aamir Khan. Sure, his mannerisms did feel a little exaggerated but they became a part of the character. After a long, long while a character he played didn't remind me it was him. In fact, while jotting my notes, at one point I found myself writing Anushka Sharma to PK! That form me was another victory for the film. 
Not that Anushka Sharma didn't perform well, it was easier to remember her as the actor rather than the character. A lot of the other players too - Saurabh Shukla, Boman Irani, Parikshit Sahni keep the film on its mark without attracting too much attention towards them, which is no small feat in itself. Else, Hindi films are so proficient at making caricatures out of Godmen that it is a welcome relief when it doesn't happen.
But, PK is not one of those films that would need extra points for what it didn't do. It has enough going for it. Rajkumar Hirani films aren't great works of cinema in terms of other departments of filmmaking. They keep their background music, camerawork, post production to the minimum. Their focus is on the writing, (with a few diversions in form of songs and a romantic track). And they don't even rely too much on subtlety and symbolism.
In fact, these are films when the characters are as uni-dimensional as they get. Also, ironically, you have to take major leaps of faith as the films have a boatload of flaws and over-simplifies complex issues. It is irksome at most times, yet you are willing to let it go. Because the films say it like it is, and keep you engaged while making a point without becoming too preachy. That in itself is a full plate. 
Fortunately or unfortunately, sometimes that doesn't bring anything new to a person who is on the same side of the argument. The same concern I had with OMG Oh My God. Blind faith and misuse of blind faith that feeds on fear is something we have to deal with on a day-to-day basis. So, the points made in and by PK are drawing room conversations you and I might have had umpteen number of times. It's good to see our point of view represented and presented in a manner that should make sense to those who follow God and more importantly Godmen blindly. I would applaud it for finding the balance and not defying the existence of a supreme power. 
To say the film focussed only on one religion would be completely missing the point. It is up to us to extrapolate it to the religion of our choice, including our own. How many of us will "get it" and be able to internalise it is a completely different question altogether. 
Every Hirani film coins a phrase that eventually becomes common parlance, "jaadu ki jhappi", "all is well", "Gandhigiri" and now "wrong number". Fortunately, one you don't mind taking. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
