
Even if I know what to expect, and even if I know better than to expect any sort of entertainment from this crew, in this genre, I end up hoping to like at least something in it. I know its not the film's fault, and I have to suffer the brunt of my personality. But I did end up being more disappointed than I was expecting to be, is the best way I can put it. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There are two-three things that I was actually pleasantly surprised to find in the film. Some sort of an attempt at a story, even if it comes only in the second half. The first half is as random as can be. And the stylish editing and general post-production of the action pieces. The color saturation and grungy look is ironically fresh because it is rare in Hindi films. Then you have the obsessive, almost obsessed vamp - as hardcore as vamps get, induces more fear than the "main" villain. 
But, none of these, except maybe for the vamp serve any specific purpose. They look more like they are incidental to the main objective of the film - displaying action by Ajay Devgn. So, the story seems like it exists because a part of the audience has silly expectations like a story line. The x-factor in the action sequences seem like they exist because the filmmakers wanted to have them and it didn't matter whether it fit in the texture of the rest of the film - which incidentally it didn't. Not to mention, I wondered more than once, if they were covering up for the lack of creativity in the action choreography department. The obsessive vamp then leaves you with very little in terms of hope. 



The supposed comedy doesn't bring half a smile. The dance sequences are way too generic for a film with the name Prabhu Deva attached to it. The lead ladies Sonakshi Sinha and Yami Gautam are as perfunctory as they could get. 
It all boils down to - does Ajay Devgn pulls the film through then? Well, yes and no. Yes, for those of us who don't mind what the film is about as long as Ajay Devgn is pulling his stunts right. No, obviously for the rest of us. 
I've had enough films that are banking on one star's stardom to pull an entire 2-2.5 hour film through - be it Akshay Kumar, Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Aamir Khan or my personal favorite Ajay Devgn. Sure most of them have either action, romance or a social message as the other anchor in the film. But, I know I've had enough. Aren't the actors done with these films that seem like it is more about them, the STAR?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
