
"Common man and his angst" I don't think this topic is getting old in India any time soon. Especially, if there are new ideas, how much ever impractical they might be. And new, easily palatable solutions, which even more easily invoke activism is exactly what Ungli offers.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The impressive thing about the writing is that it not only picks topics that you and I encounter on a day-to-day basis and provide its own style of solution. It goes a little beyond. It creates an intriguing character and gives the character a dilemma - a real dilemma that you can see him fighting within. That doesn't take away from the fact that the "ungli activism" episodes themselves are pretty well thought out. 
I especially enjoyed the rickshaw episode. No, not because it is closer to heart. Maybe a little because they picked an issue that involved civic sense. Maybe a little more because it was not against the usual suspects - politicians/law enforcement. Even a little more because they dared to point a finger at the not-so-rich class. But, the most because of the point in the story that it is done. And how, these facts - that the target is not the typical ones and not rich creates unforeseen complications. Also this triggers a change in the dynamics of the relationships between other characters.



Such slight detail in writing is so rare in Hindi films, especially the mainstream films that I take delight in them. It comes as an icing on the cake, when the performances are mostly restrained and there's no melodrama. Of course, the whole "angst" bit does come across as dramatic at some points. But then again, I can see myself getting worked up as much, when I see a car halting in the middle of the road to drop someone off. Here, the issues were larger and the reasons too. 
Randeep Hooda, Emraan Hashmi, Angad Bedi and Neil Bhopalam all play their bits well and actually look like real people in the real world. Maybe that self-referencing line by Emraan Hashmi could've been avoided because it just reminds you of the actor rather than keep him character.
On the other hand, I liked the fact that Neha Dhupia and Kangna Ranaut who came into the industry banking heavily or used heavily for their oomph-factor, are now slowly taking on non-glam avatars. Just that neither of them wore anything blingy was good enough too. 
I guess it was too  much to ask the makers to avoid an item number. Shraddha Kapoor trying to make a some point with her appearance as a bar dancer. An item number that doesn't even have her lip-sync one line properly while the man in the song does the honors. 
These things in the beginning of the film make you a little wary of what's to come. But as the movie proceeds, such annoying bits are kept at bay and you settle in. And you actually get involved. 
An engaging film Ungli is. But like observed in another film not too long ago, "Human behavior and life doesn't change in 3 hours."

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
