
A contract killer who has his first fist fight when he was 5 is reformed because of love while the reformer, the lady, is oblivious to the fact that he kill for a living. Add songs at random spots, loud background score,   louder dialogue delivery and you have a film that disappoints you with every passing frame. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Kill Dil doesn't start out like that though. The opening scenes are actually perfectly quirky with slick cinematography and crisp editing. It makes you sit up and take in all that is happening on screen. Until, Govinda enters, which is about 5-7 minutes into the film. 
I'm not saying it is because of Govinda's entry that things go downhill, it is a coincidence that the moment the trio Govinda-Ranveer Singh-Ali Zafar start singing one of the title songs, that you wonder how come this sudden drop to slapstick zone? After that, for quite some time, I tried to make sense of the absolute lameness of how the story was moving until I caught myself trying too hard to like the film owing to the first five minutes.



Every once in a while, there is an odd dialogue that brings a smile. Ranveer Singh's overt attempt at being cute, charms intermittently too. But, the overall plot, zero attempt at building any intrigue, the unremarkable characters topped off with outlandish songs popping in from nowhere, just kills any attempt by the audience to enjoy the film. 
For instance, Parineeti Chopra's character, Disha just exists. She has zero role to play in how the others are behaving but all the credit and discredit goes to Disha. Similarly, Tutu (Ali Zafar) is the protagonist, Dev's (Ranveer Singh) best friend, his alter ego too, but Tutu comes across as just incidental. Dev himself and more so his transformation seems arbitrary. Everything he does comes across as something a character in his situation in any film, ought to have done. His actions seem rather functional.
Fortunately, the performances keep things at the borderline of tolerable. Govinda instills fear as he is supposed to but by the end goes over-the-top and the drama gets over-bearing. Ali Zafar is the most subdued of the lot. While it is refreshing to watch him in a non-chocolate-boy kind-of a role, facial hair taking it a long way, his performance very soon boils down to the same old expressions. Ranveer Singh, like I said, charms but the character is too loosely written for him to do much with it. The biggest waste of talent here is Parineeti Chopra. Not only because this is a role she must have sleep-walked through but also because her character is just inconsequential.
You are left then with just a few one-liners strewn across that have the potential to bring a smile. Some stylish cinematography and background music in the first few minutes that resort to tacky and loud respectively by the end of the film. And the end itself of the film is pretty lame. 
Story lines like Kill Dil had started losing their charm 30+ years ago. I am still not able to get over the fact that Shaad Ali and team, couldn't add one new angle to make it look like a product for and by the next generation. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
