
Did the whole world change while I was on vacation? Or maybe I am just naïve. When did the singular motto of every married person become to try and have an extra-marital affair? And even if that happened, do we really need to blame a city for our promiscuity? However, once you get past these two basic plot premises, you begin to appreciate the performances and the flashes of clever dialogue. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The most remarkable achievement of the director and the actors is the chemistry between each couple, whichever part of the triangle they are. Be it - revulsion, indifference, love, intimacy - all emotions convey (at most times) what the character feels. Also, the characters are pretty consistent, which is an achievement in itself. 
And Irrfan Khan and Konkona Sen Sharma playing comic relief is so refreshing! They keep the mood light whenever the other characters start taking themselves too seriously, giving the required impetus whenever the pace begins to slacken. Shilpa Shetty gives an elegant performance and Kay Kay Menon plays to perfection the-guy-you-would-love-to-hate. And we are back to a suicidal Kangna Ranaut, but at least this time around, she looks good. Sharman Joshi's talent desperately needs to be treated with meatier roles. And somehow, the Dharmendra-Nafisa Ali track seemed very forced and contrived, especially because of the shabby treatment their dialogues were given.
The movie starts off with some brilliant lines that almost sound like poetry, but soon enough doze off to inane-land. Thereafter, the brilliance is pretty much sporadic. 
Similarly, the lyrics are a welcome change from the nonsense we have been served in the name of poetry, of late. They reflect the mood of the characters and flow well with the overall situations. However, all the songs sound like they have been composed by a rock band. Which would have been tolerable but for the picturization. In an attempt to avoid lip-synching they went overboard. Give me the unnecessary songs, with barely-clad men and women dancing for me, I will take that. But, three men - none of whom have seen a comb or a razor in the past year, but know a lot about greasing curly locks - coming at me like objects do in a 3-D show, in every single song. Not done! Even in the name of fashion.
It is the climax of movies that do not have any particular purpose in mind that can make or break the movie. And the culmination fails here big time. It feels like the writer got bored towards the end and just wanted to get it done with one way or the other. If not for the cumbersome climax, the movie might have been well worth a watch. But, alas...

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
