
Rang Rasiya is bold. Not just because of the one scene with sex and nudity, but also because of the theme(s) it picks on and the narrative they've chosen to depict the concepts. For that itself, Rang Rasiya could be watched by an avid film buff. However, beyond that, it comes across as a mish-mash of themes, all trying to have their say and none getting enough space to do it. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Randeep Hooda as a misunderstood, controversial painter is a strong lead. I have come to love his choice of films and his growing strength as a performer. Sure, he still comes across as repetitive across films with his brooding characters. But, Rang Rasiya gives him a little more width for expression and he thrives. 
Nandana Sen is gorgeous and gives her character the fullest too. For once, the lead lady character in a Hindi film is used for her body, and yet it doesn't look sleazy or doesn't seem like objectification. The credit for that of course goes to the writing and the story. 
Unfortunately though, the chemistry between the two leads seems forced. The intimate scenes though much more explicit and thus seemingly more natural also come across as self-conscious. In fact, that can be said about the film as a whole.
The makers are very aware that they are trying something different, and while it is not pretentious of self-consumed, the awareness shows. This doesn't let me get involved as an audience. Also, the narrative is too episodic thus not allowing a smooth flow from one scenario into another. That fluidity is of utmost importance to a film that attempts to be so poetic. 
And this film, for its subject matter deserves to be poetic too. For one, it is set in a period more than 100 years ago. That era lends itself to romanticization on its own, which wasn't capitalised on completely. To top it off, you have a painter who wishes to express things that the world around him is not ready for. What more could lend itself to lyricism in a film?
Also, this alone was good enough to make for a full length feature film. However, issues related to gender roles, freedom, value of art and the creator, philanthropy, religion and more are brought into the realm creating a potpourri that doesn't blend well together. Not to mention, each thread feels like it is left midway. I am all for open-ended stories, but this seemed a unintentional. 
I would still watch Rang Rasiya, for what it's trying to do. The hope is that as there are more and more bold themes, these creases will be ironed out to give us a wholesome, less self-aware film. Till then, this is a decent enough start. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
