
After the lead pair, two crooks, brought in together in a police van for crimes they committed separately, predictably and lamely falls in love, Tamanchey is like any other love story with a couple that faces the wrath of their families for being in love. Only the family is replaced by the lady's boyfriend who happens to be a wrathful and powerful goon himself. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For this group of criminals, you are allowed the liberty of fowl language, also making the film a little different from your regular family drama. But there is just no other element in the film to get you interested, let alone keep you there. 
It is kind of nice that a love story was made without any mush but that you don't even sense the chemistry between the couple is a let-down. This is despite lots and lots of screen time with each other and plenty more than one intimate scene between the two. 



The writing, in every aspect - dialogue, characterization, story arc - is completely lackluster. And that's where the crux lies. When pretty much the whole plot is predictable you can have only so much interest in how the actual ending goes. When the characters have a flat arch it matters little that they carry a shade of grey. When the focus is making the film overtly typical of how a real life criminal would talk, the superficiality and in-your-face nature of the dialogue shines through more than the lines itself. 
There is very little then that Richa Chadda and Nikhil Dwivedi can do with their performances. They have the right expressions but they all seem too mechanical. Either like they are under some kind of stress or like they don't have their heart in it. Just one of those cases where the hard work shows instead of seeming effortless. 
Given the "different" setting for the love story Tamanchey could have had a spark that could've made it at least a film watching once, if not a good film. That as you know by now, didn't quite work out. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
