
Sonali Cable surprisingly begins to engage you the common man being stuck in the deep nexus between politicians and businessmen. You've seen the nexus earlier, and you know the stuck common man all too well. Yet, the story unfolds showing every seemingly powerful person having someone more powerful than them call the shots and hooks you in. Unfortunately, it finds itself in a rut for a bit and then crumbles and resolves itself all too suddenly.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sonali Cable picks an issue that seems to be close to the makers' hearts. With a slight left of center inclination, it tries to plead its case of the injustice faced by small business owners who are stubbed out by macho businesses with clout and resources. For a bit, you might wonder if it is contradicting itself by showing the humble beginnings of the big business owner and the small business owner dreaming big. But it tries to sneak in a meek "it's the how that is wrong, not the what."
Yet, most of Sonali Cable could've worked had it raised the tempo to a hilt in the climax with something more than an unimaginative end to the proceedings. It built up pretty well and it is a shame that the finish felt rushed and a make-do arrangement. 



Fortunately, the characters are engaging and some of the lines are interesting. It is refreshing to see the lady take a lead in a film of this budget and nature. At times Sonali's character even is completely independent of whether or not she has her boyfriend, Raghu's support. She carried a "good to have, but don't need" kind of an attitude towards him - not something you easily find in Hindi films.
Sonali is played by Rhea Chakraborty who looks so much like Genelia D'Souza. Once I got past that I realised that the least you can say about Rhea Chakraborty is that she is earnest. You can tell she's trying hard, yet within a film or two, given the right role, she could very easily wow you. You sense her character, Sonali's chemistry with Ali Fazal's character, Raghu in the scenes where they start getting intimate. Raghu is a support to Sonali and Ali Fazal plays it out with the constraint that a supporting actor should play his part with.
Anupam Kher's Waghela on the other hand, sticks to your memory, as an annoying over-the-top rags-to-riches story that you'd rather forget. But that is what the character is meant to do. Smita Jaykar too leaves behind a strong performance. 
Interestingly, the rest of departments of film-making, except maybe the lyrics of the songs, are so unspectacular that they draw your attention to the fact that the focus is the issue at hand. Sonali Cable wanted to make a point and it has tried its best to not lose focus. Unfortunately, though, it feels a little long drawn out with a tame ending. Yet, there are some bits that stay with you, bit that you can watch the whole film for once. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
