
For starters, let's set aside the fact that Kaushik Ghatak's Samrat & Co is a recreation of a Sherlock Holmes-esque character, in India - an absolute travesty of a recreation at that. No, first let's talk about the film as an independent cinematic work, a murder mystery thrust into the hands of a super detective.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Mumbai-based celebrity detective, the eponymous Samrat, receives a strange case from a pretty young lady, a case that prompts him to travel with her to Shimla. Ultimately, a series of murders unfold, as Samrat races against time to connect the clues strewn across his path and solve the case.
Unfortunately, what we're served through this plot (that's anyway older than the hills the film is set in,) is a succession of rather juvenile 'mysterious' circumstances and events which shouldn't challenge a schoolboy, much less a supposed ace detective who can accurately guess a person's life history within minutes of meeting them.  



Predictably laden with red herrings galore, the film tries too hard to be clever, but falls flat because the writers either underestimated the audience, or over-estimated themselves. Big work is made of silly substitution cipher codes and clues as simple as A-B-C.
The tangled mess of a screenplay was bad enough, but what makes matters worse is that most of the film is shot against a chroma background, with computer-generated scenery added later. It gives the film an fake look throughout; a pity because setting the film in the hills gave the film a chance to be a visual treat, a chance that was squandered by the filmmakers. 
Now let's get to the film's real crime - the attempted murder of Messrs Holmes and Watson. A mockery is made of these iconic literary characters, as their Indian counterparts Samrat and Chakradhar resort to showboating, buffoonery and general incompetence, while relegating common sense and propriety to some forgotten corner. 
Rajeev Khandelwal, a fair performer otherwise, really overdoes the Sherlock, while the less said about the guy who plays Watson, the better. The supporting cast of the film is essentially an assortment of people over-acting and under-acting.
In an attempt to draw at least something positive from the film, one can say that it least it never drops its pace and might even keep you interested in its silliness at all times - you wonder how much harder will the makers of the film try. Hopefully, Samrat & Co will die a death with the film, and future filmmakers will think long and hard before creating such lightweight caricatures of characters who have enthralled so many generations.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Pradeep Menon. Pradeep is a filmmaker and a dreamer. He loves books, rain, winters, tea and his parents. Cinema, however, is the only truth he believes in. He breathes and bleeds film, mostly in hues of saffron, white, green and blue. You can watch his short films at www.youtube.com/cyberpradeep.
    
    
  
