
Sometimes you can judge a book by its cover. Pappu Can't Dance Saala offers not an ounce more than what you would expect after you saw the trailer. The problem is that you expect boredom after watching the trailer.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The story is good ol' boy-meets-girl with a dash of city-village divide and a topping of opposites-attract. There is no humor, no spark, no emotional involvement because of the dreary situations and the monotonous dialogue given to fill in the details. 
There's only so much that a brilliant actor like Vinay Pathak can do. Even though this time instead of the happy-go-luck simpleton, he plays the angry-irritable simpleton, it feels stale. I refuse to blame the actor just yet, the film is not fresh in its take or its treatment. Neha Dhupia annoys as desired by the character in the beginning but that too quickly begins to fall flat once you see a her absolutely uncivil, inconsiderate character grow a heart. Again, can't blame the actor. 
Though casting her as a dancing superstar and moreso Rajat Kapoor as a choreographer is laughable. Rajat Kapoor who doesn't move as much as a finger in the name of dance through the film. I mean, thank goodness for some mercies and all that, but why cast him at all? Don't tell me there aren't enough people in the Saurabh Shukla-Vinay Pathak-Rajat Kapoor camp who couldn't have danced to prove why the character was so reveled. 
There are a couple of moments in the film between Vinay Pathak and Neha Dhupia that are endearing, but that's too little to make a film a worthwhile watch. There is also an attempt to draw a balance between antagonist and misinformed attitudes between cities and small towns. But the first problem there is that in order to bridge the gap, the differences are shown in the same old stereotypical ways. By the time you see the modern views warming up to traditional ones and the traditional ones reciprocate, its too late. The second problem it's all too preachy.
Similarly, the effort taken to enlighten men to menstrual cycle woes is sweet and all but it's too in-the-face. It reminded me of the contraception ads in the 80s where one friend would explain the concept to another. This was one way to handle it and it didn't work, next time maybe we can try using sensitivity in order to sensitize.
I liked the attempt in the beginning to call off the ways in which a woman uses her fairer-gender card to her advantage. Using a man who sees through it and wants to treat a woman as his equal and thus won't allow her to gain out of it, went very well with how the character develops later. Only such a man could see, appreciate and accept a woman for what she is instead of just see her as either weak or as a converse characterless. 
So many meaningful points to make and yet no cigar. Such is the sad story of Pappu and his inability to dance. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
