
You have to grant that Bang Bang delivers what it promises in the trailers. Lots of action, just about tolerable stunts, a bit of coochie-coo between the incredibly good-looking lead pair and lots of on-screen time for the two, individually and together - all of it pretty much mindless, with no attempt at creating any interest in the plot itself.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Some of the stunts do look cool, especially for those of us who are not exposed to enough Hollywood. That seems to be Bang Bang's first selling point - Bang Bang, the machine gun kind and not the other kind that the movie itself admits there isn't enough of. You have the works - bikes, cars, race cars even, choppers, boats, water skis and what not. You have Hrithik Roshan flying down buildings and cliffs and emerging up from the deep seas. But, you know they are there just for the sake of being there. More of the "cool" idea leading to its insertion in the film rather than the story requiring the creativity of the cool idea. 
Pretty much same goes for the film's second selling point - Hrithik Roshan and Katrina Kaif - the gorgeous looking people that they are, they supposedly don't require character devlopment, depth or even a half-decent story or even decent chemistry. Just the presense of the actors ought to keep the audience happy. For the sake of completeness, then I will mention the most obvious - their abdominal muscles certainly worked out more than the facial muscles. Body language? Baah! Who needs that when you have the body? Any attempt at injecting emotion then, seems farcical. 



Not that emotion has much of a place in this film. So what, if it's has patriotism at its chore and wants to be a revenge drama. You'd think there would be a little more room for good song and dance in a film like this, especially given Hrithink Roshan's presence. But that too is too much to ask for. Just in case, you are still wondering, the entire plot is pretty much pointless given the "twist" in the climax. 
Since the film then has no  more selling points, it resorts to blatant product placements so much so that after Krrish 3 now, I have started associating Hrithik Roshan with product placement. 
And yet, I can't completely put the film down. At least, true-blue action stunts are being attempted. They might not have been executed well, but hopefully it will get better with the next film or the next. Meanwhile, though this is meant for some other long weekend, one which has the film running on TV with the luxury of flipping channels. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
