
Good romantic comedies are few and far between. Well, of course, I mean the ones that make you laugh and go "awwww" alternately. There are others that try and you wish they hadn't. Khoobsurat has honest moments that make you want to fall in love all over again and times when you laugh out loud. That is not to say it doesn't have clichés and all things that go with the word Disney, prince and princesses. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In that sense, Khoobsurat (2014) differs from Khoobsurat (1980) in one significant way. The focus is much more on romance here than it is on binding the family, which is not necessarily a bad thing. The further a remake steers from the original, the better its chances of working. 
The biggest surprise is Sonam Kapoor. It's like she has left herself loose, like she has finally gotten comfortable in front of the camera. In many ways, she reminded me more of Kareena Kapoor in Jab We Met and Katrina Kaif in Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara more than Rekha from the original Khoobsurat. Doesn't help that the characters are all similar, but more to do with how stiff these women were in the films before these and these films saw them let go. 



There are a few other charming details (other than the prince himself, more on him later). The supporting characters from King Rathod's aide, Ramsevak to King Rathod himself; from the prince's little sister Divya to her mom, Her highness, Nirmala Rathod (her first name a nod to the corresponding character in the original film). The characters have slight flourishes to them that keep you interested and are played out very well by the actors themselves. 
The only sore thumb being in the form of Kirron Kher. Isn't she done playing the loud Punjabi mom just yet? I understand the Punjabi background comes in handy when you want to show that the genes transferred is what produces the uber-chirpy Mili (Sonam Kapoor). But, it is just tiring to see that stereotype. 
What it helps though is to accentuate the stark contrast between Mili and Prince Vikram (Fawad Khan). Fawaad Khan has a lovely restraint about his persona. It is like this role was meant for him and him only. While he needs to hold just one expression through most of the film, when he does need to deviate, he does it with the slightest change and yet makes it believable. 
What also keeps things believable in this palatial setting are some very day-to-day one-liners. The kind you and I would quip nonchalantly and laugh hard over. Some of the situations created and the way they are resolved are rather normal too. And normal in a way that doesn't bore you. That part of real life that you don't mind seeing on reel. Not to mention, for a change the voiceovers that start out sounding awkward turn into amusing train of thoughts that every one has, when they are thinking one thing and saying another. 
Another thing which though I really loved, am not sure if it went with the tone for the film was Sneha Khanwalkar's music. It has such a lovely quirky ring to it that you are thankful for its existence irrespective of whether or not it was meant for the said film. I don't if I should be happy or sad that they had someone else do the end-credit song. 
Where Khoobsurat misses out then is when characters transition. Perfectly consistent characters that have grown on you, change suddenly. It all seems a bit too convenient. A little too predictable with no effort at masking the predictability. The movie wasn't going to end any other way, you know it and so do I. But some effort at staying away from typicality would've kept the tone of the film through till the end.  
Yet, it's something I would recommend for a light Sunday afternoon. It is guilty pleasure. It is saccharine sweet and fluffy. It is candy floss - it won't satiate your appetite, but will feel good while you are at it and a little after. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
