
Daawat-e-ishq starts out with strongly with its theme again dowry. It makes you belch at the people who ask for dowry, just in case you weren't already there. Which is fine and you wonder where its going to take you from here. You fly into this bizarre zone where One lie begets another and things mess up considerably. Only to end with a quick and convenient solution, not to mention predictable. Yet the earnestness in the performances and the issue the film supports keep you reasonably engaged.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Parineeti Chopra, Aditya Roy Kapoor and Anupam Kher are all completely comfortable under the skin of their characters. In fact, Parineeti Chopra (Gullu) seems repetitive considering the Gullu is runs parallel to the characters she played in Ladies vs Ricky Bahl and Ishaqzaade. 
Anupam Kher amazes no end, for the first few seconds he is on screen, I almost didn't realise it was him, given his accent, mannerism and dialogue delivery. Sure, he slips every now and then as the film progresses, but those first few seconds stay with you. Aditya Roy Kapoor too makes you believe the rawness of his character, Tariq even though Tariq himself is rather liberated compared to the backstory he has. 



That is what charms you about Daawat-e-ishq. It has the most unbelievable situations and the characters go back and forth in their dilemmas depending on the situation they are presented with. Yet you kind-of sort-of want them to behave the way they do at every juncture of the story. It is a rarity in Hindi films, this mixture of wanting characters to behave in a certain way irrespective of how unbelievable it is.  
The rest then, the songs, the accent, the Hyderabadi/Lucknowi flavor are all mere salt and pepper added to cover the bland even if silly meat of the film. In fact, the last stretch of the film feels like even the makers realised that they've brought the film to such a twisted point that there is no smooth and natural way to unwind. It had to be done by hook or crook and that's pretty much what happens.
In a way, these convoluted mechanisms take away from the social issue that the film so passionately wants to support. You are left wondering what the film is in fact saying about the situation of the dowry system of the country. You might be dead sure that it is a horrific system, but having it intertwined with the desperate measures dowry givers have to make shifts focus. A film with this issue at its heart might not want to be at a place where there are ifs and buts around the issue. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
