
Yes, Mary Kom the film is much more dramatized and fictionalized than I had expected, but Mary Kom the character has so much grit that even if the real life Mary Kom is half as gutsy and strong-willed, she makes for a story that inspires. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Unfortunately though that you have to do - discount a lot of the story. It's a shame that the makers didn't find the true story exciting enough and chose to spice events up for their convenience. I understand, some times that is what a commercial film needs, but it shouldn't be done to such an extent that you start questioning every episode you see on screen. 
So much so that, I came home to check the chronology of some events and was hugely disappointed with the way the timing of the climax (including the opponent Mary Kom plays) is changed around for filmy effect. I shouldn't be made to wait to get to Google to look up Mary Kom's life, I should want to be with the film for a long, long time. 



Then for a person who knows nothing about boxing, I wonder if the technicalities of boxing were shown appropriately. Without wanting to look it up (more because of disinterest rather than anything else) I am willing to place my money on boxing technicalities being totally ignored. It does look like an ill-researched project or worse, one where well-done research is intentionally disregarded.
You then have the narrative itself. The screenplay is way too episodic almost like you are watching the film one short chapter after another. Almost as if to cover this drawback, the first half of the film even tries its hand at non-linear narration. Else, there is no particular reason to take us back and forth on the timeline.
It is heartening though, that all these gaps in writing are sidelined by the best efforts of the cast. Priyanka Chopra and Darshan Kumaar are all equally earnest in their performances. At times, the dialogue help at others the filminess distracts but you cannot put the dialogue delivery at fault. This is despite the distracting make-up, colored and straightened hair, where none belonged. The actors make you root for the real-life people. If not for the blatant product placement, you would feel their pain with them too. 
While a husband's support for his wife's career, especially such a demanding one should be a given, not every one gets it. Less so, in small-town or rural India. I am happy that Mary Kom's husband, Onler's sacrifices and contribution received as much screen time as it did. This is an inspirational story of its own. 
And oh the irony of seeing sugar free, Iodex and Usha advertise their way into a film about one of the country's  athletes who in real-life struggled to find sponsors and financial support for most of her career. I guess we should just be thankful that there were no item numbers to make the film commercially appealing.
So, would I take my kids to the theater to watch this one? Unlikely, will certainly not make extra effort. But would want them to watch it when it's on TV, just to see the power of strong will. Fortunately or unfortunately, it's not for the cinema, it's for the real-life person who deserved a film about her life. 
It is also interesting that a biopic has been made of a person whose career is still on. So for all you know, the story isn't over yet and we have the chance for an even more inspirational Mary Kom 2 at our hands, and hopefully a better film too. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
