
You have an innocent looking child. He is poor. He has to work hard. And then you see a gleam in his eye for something unreachable. What's there not to like about stories like these? Especially when there are reasonably decent performances. Hawaa Hawaai is yet another story that inspires to reach out for your passion. At the same time, It attempts at sensitizing you to the issues of child labour in Mumbai slums - which is nice, even if a little too in-the-face. It is yet another story that you can watch. The only problem is the words "yet another".





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Hawaa Hawaai's story has a very "been there, seen that" feeling about it. The melodrama doesn't help its case. And then it has a preachy undertone, which borderline beats its own purpose. The good thing is, every time it goes into one of these zones, it manages to get back on track pretty quickly. In fact, it even makes some points rather subtly, in contrast to its own style thus far. 
The writing is very simple. The story doesn't dig deep into its characters, nor does it even try to create too many ups and downs. In fact, the first down that our protagonist Arjun aka Raju (Partho Gupte) sees came way after I thought, "isn't this all happening too easily for him?" 



The beauty is that you don't mind things working out easily for Arjun. His character and situation has been built up such that it'd be wrong of you not to sympathize with his condition instantaneously. Yes, the film is  pretty judgmental about its audience. It wants to educate. It wants to sensitize. All very noble, except that it gets patronizing every once in a while. 
Fortunately, the combined effort of the actors, doesn't allow the patronizing to become overwhelming. Partho Gupte's earnest performance; Saqib Salim's enthusiastic one; and the knowing irony that the four kids in Arjun's gang bring out together don't allow you to get bogged down with the overt effort to sensitize.
I also found myself intermittently tuning off the lyrics to the songs playing in the background. One, there were way too many of them. Two, the music wasn't too great. Three, the lyrics are predictable. 
In any case, will I take my kids to watch this one? Yes, for sure. And hopefully, that will contribute to efforts in inspiring some form of social responsibility in them. That - Hawaa Hawaai might be perfect for. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
