
It is always fun to watch branded films like Singham Returns, whether or not you like the film ultimately. The audience is there to enjoy and I always enjoy their enthusiasm. This once, though there was an additional pleasure. First fifteen minutes into the film, and you know there is a serious attempt at developing a plot. Another half an hour or so in, when you hear one or two people clap and cheer and the rest of the audience joins in you realise that the viewers have been uncharacteristically quiet after the initial zeal. They were hooked to what was happening on screen. Unfortunately, this doesn't last through the film. There are dips, especially in the second half and the climax is a simple bummer.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Yet, Singham Returns started with an impact. In fact, it was a pleasant surprise to see subtlety in this form of cinema. There's a remark on an entire generation being responsible for the "anything goes" attitude of the current generation, especially with regard to corruption. Then, the "vote-buying" scene with the backdrop of a city skyline was a nice touch (even if executed tackily). And a few more alond similar lines.
The dialogue writing, especially in the first half is strikingly good. Even if some of it does get "filmy", a lot of it is delivered smoothly to appreciate both the dialogue delivery and the dialogue itself. At most times they are unexpectedly contextual, and at times they are even insightful/profound. But, of course, it loses steam in the second half. 



The writer's passion for showing the hard-working, dutiful facet of the Mumbai police shines through. It's almost as if he takes the offense personally, when people try to bribe a policeman on the street. Not a single policeman is corrupt and they are all up in arms to do the right thing, even if it were at the risk of losing their beloved job. It is almost as if they are an official Union that has gone on strike so that people see the good in them. 
I'm usually sympathetic towards women's role in films of this genre which have the woman just because there should be a woman, a necessary prop of types. But, while Singham Returns gives Kareena Kapoor more than her share of screen space, the quality her appearance makes you wish it hadn't. She is more like a romantic-cum-comic relief used to elongate the runtime of the film. The romantic track is too long for the theme of the film, is annoying because it is loud and over-done, out-of-place because it doesn't seem to have received the writer's attention when compared to the rest of the film. It felt like a chore that they needed to get out of the way. It is also loud, undoubtedly and unnecessarily. I'd love to see a quieter version of the film without the romance and the comedy for sure.
Somewhere on the top of the list of things that make the film loud is Kareena Kapoor. She is shrill and irritating and over-acting. This seems to rub off on other women characters even in the small bits they get like Constable Mahesh's wife and the woman from the slums who supports taking money from a political party for her vote. In comparison, the men seem to be in control. Even the caricature Godman baba that Amol Gupte plays looks mild in comparison, though by himself is over-the-top. Zakir Hussain too is appropriately arrogant and scared as a politician whose career is dependent upon which way the tide flows. In their midst is Ajay Devgn's soothing presence even if he doesn't emote much.  Even so, each one of them has unmissable screen presence, including Ashwini Kalsekar who plays the over-enthusiastic journalist. 
Setting aside the stretched romantic track and lame attempt at humor, even the action choreography and CGI seems half-hearted this time around. Except for a flying Ajay Devgn once in the entire film, there is no real attempt at adding an element of oomph to the action sequences. As difficult as I find it to believe, the focus is the story and the point its trying to make. 
That brings me to what some of the regular readers here are waiting to read - It is a Rohit Shetty film, that is a little less like a Rohit Shetty film, because it is actually trying to make sense while trying to keep what one expects from a Rohit Shetty film alive. Fortunately, more of the earlier than latter. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
