
Comparisons with DDLJ and JWM are inevitable. Not that the makers have any qualms about having that comparison made. If only, HSKD had the warmth of DDLJ or the spark of  JWM. Yet, there is some attempt at being different and that's applaudable. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Now, HSKD modernises DDLJ with today's lingo and it wouldn't be too far-fetched to say that the average Simran has now grown up to become the average Kavya. To that extent Alia Bhatt's Kavya works. Her adorable demeanor is very difficult to get over and I can imagine people going to the theaters just to watch her and coming out happy.
But, she has barely anything to do post-interval. A lot of Aalia's missing over-powering screen presence has to do with Kavya's boyfriend (Humpty, Varun Dhawan) and father (Singh, Ashutosh Rana) taking over the reins of what she wants from life. This is where the film begins to get annoying. 



This lady, who goes from small-town Ambala to Delhi to organize a Rs. 5,00,000 designer wedding dress, but is willing to do nothing for herself when it matters to her the most? Instead, she's expecting the world to revolve around her despite all else. I understand the film wants to keep things light and I'm thankful they don't go all siren-y melodramatic on us. But, you cannot connect/sympathize with a lead lady just because she's the lead lady, right? What hope is left if she's either full of herself or all chirpy-bubbly when times are desperate. 
But, Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania scores full points in the one huge complaint I have against films like DDLJ and JWM - the other guy. Unlike its predecessors, HSKD's other guy is not a loser, and is as good as the hero. For all practical purposes, he's well-worth the lead lady (since she's made out to be the prize money). So, there is only one reason to root for our hero. 
Of course, Humpty is written out to be someone you cannot dislike. But can you root for him? I wasn't too stumped by him. He does all the right things, alright. But, somehow it all seems a little too contrived. Which is why the chemistry between Alia Bhatt and him is less chemistry and more mechanics. I don't think we can find fault with Varun Dhawan's performance. Only thing is, the script just doesn't require much emoting out of him. 
Siddharth Shukla plays the good boy well. Once again, not much is demanded off him. Ashutosh Rana though is the most charming of the lot. Not as menacing as an Amrish Puri, maybe, but someone you can never be too sure off.
The characters' motivations are all over the place and transition from one end to the other without much explanation. Almost as if the writers are banking on the audience's forgiving nature, "itna toh chalta hai" (This much "taking us for granted" is acceptable). 
Not much of the other stuff worked - except for one song, the music is bhangra or disco and sounds and looks like the next bhangra or disco number. 
HSKD is cute. It is certainly DDLJ catching up with today's times. So, it sheds itself of much dramatization and a good part of the run-time. But, it also doesn't stimulate any emotion, let alone touch you from within. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
