
It is that time for the year again, when I go through the futile exercise of reviewing a Salman Khan film. The thing is those who want to watch it, will watch it anyways and you couldn't pay those who don't want to watch it, to do so (why would you want to do that anyway?) Kick is as typical a Salman Khan film as it gets, plus a tad bit of a story, a tad bit of an attempt at keeping things sorted, a tad bit of an attempt at acting more than usual by Salman Khan (not that I was expecting it). He enters in style. He stays, he swaggers and he mouths his sytlish lines in style. No one else matters, though they technically do try and succeed if only the audience cared. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I must confess, I think I finally get what the Salmania is all about. The very thing that gets on my nerves - his complete lack of acting skills. Tell me I got this right - he knows that he cannot act and he knows that he can get away with it - this is what makes Salman Khan, Salman Khan. Right? The over-confidence. When I saw him try to emote a little more than usual, even I felt like whistling. No, that's not the magic of Salman Khan. That's the magic of rock-bottom expectations. 
Oh and listening to him speak in English is refreshing too. It is such a relief not to listen to the lines that you see in the trailer, repeated every 10 minutes to remind us how cool Salman Khan is. In fact, some of the lines are actually enjoyable even if you discount for the fact that the rest of the entire theater is in splits or on a trip of its own cheering in delight, irrespective of what's happening on screen.  They are hooting in joy at anything and everything.



Should I then, discount also my joy that the whole theater went into an uproar at Nawazuddin Siddiqui's entry? Even with his short appearance, he leaves a remarkable impression. As a part of his quirky character, he makes this sound every once in a while. It was hilarious to have the audience repeat the sound every time he came on screen. Now, that is audience engagement at a completely different level. 
Notice, how a lot of the film's experience comes from how the audience reacts to it (even if they have come pre-determined to have a good time). As I sit here, writing this review, I wonder if I'd have given the film any of the few points, if I hadn't seen a 600-seater enjoy it completely. Would I have enjoyed the film for what it is? Nope. Because ultimately, for me the film is about the story and how it is told. And both these bits were highly irksome.
Yes, we are back to 'thinking' in a Salman Khan film. How do I stop my brain from working when I see Salman Khan's character, Devi beat the living daylights out of a bunch of people for being onlookers to eve-teasing before he beats the offenders themselves, when in the next sequence he is pretty much stalking a woman? 
The first half of the film is pretty much that. Devi wooing Shaina, a psychiatrist, one of whose first lines in the film is, "Mental ho kya?" (Do you have a mental problem?) No wonder this professional's dad is looking to either provide for her himself or look for a husband who will earn enough for her to live by. I would have tried to make an assessment of the lead lady's performance, but she is so inconsequential, despite having a good hour revolving around her, that it just doesn't matter.
In that sense, Kick is actually two stories that is force-fitted to make a feature length film. One is girl-met-boy story, the other a good-vs-evil. So, disconnected are these that they don't even bother mentioning the latter bit in the first half and the former part only happens to be lying around in the good-vs-evil part of the film. The only connecting bit is Randeep Hooda's character, Himanshu Tyagi. He looks good and does his part with the apt amount of smug. 
Within each story too, there are enough continuity jerks and logical loopholes to make a 1000-word article of its own. When they do try fill us in on the logic, you wish they didn't. So, might as well stick to the aims and objectives of the audience is, "leave brain behind, whistle and enjoy", so what a waste of an effort would that be.
Other than that, all of Kick feels stilted as if its very aware that it is a Salman Khan film. The songs come in and out in appropriate commercial doses. The cinematography is better than what you would expect from a film of the Salman Khan genre, but that doesn't give the film as a whole, too many bonus points. 
I didn't like Kick much + the other 599 in the theater loved it (with the two girls by my side, making plans to see it again on Tuesday) = what say, 300 crores? 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
