
There's a serial killer on the loose who kills women ruthlessly and yet I am smiling for the things happening on screen are mildly amusing and hardly scary. With a hero that you hardly care for, a lead lady that is carved out to be too sweet to be true and a villain who hardly has a menacing strain in him, Ek Villain is a revenge saga that works so hard in trying to make you feel for the characters that it fails and you are left gaping at the screen in bewilderment for over two hours.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The main culprit is too much backstory. Too much backstory about the lead characters and too much backstory about the villain. Serial killers are serial killers because they are serial killers. They don't really need a reason to be so. I know I have always been a fan of grey characters, but this one just doesn't work here. His reasons are not convincing, and thus only end up being a distraction from his "villainy". 
I was intrigued when the movie started with what looked like the climax. It is very difficult to pull off a thriller when the audience knows a lot of what happens. And difficult it stays, for Ek Villain. There is very little effort put into making the dynamics of how the situation reached the stage of this particular climax interesting. While the movie starts with a bang and a lot happens story-wise too, it reaches a lull soon enough.



It is then left to the actors to keep things going. Of the lot, only Siddharth Malhotra with his limited range of expressions came across as closest to natural. Both Shraddha Kapoor and Riteish Deshmukh are trying too hard to be chirpy and villainous respectively, to be effective. You could say they tried to do their bit well, in terms of trying to perform. But cute turned shrill and annoying and villainous actually made me laugh more than once. Yet, I am glad Riteish Deshmukh tried something different from slapstick. Here's to more such attempts. 
The film is also very loud, in general, with almost one or the other character shouting under the guise of being full of life or full of anger. It doesn't help that the characters are voicing out their thought instead of showing them with action. We know a lot of the villain's characters from their own description of themselves to others, as a monologue.
I don't even want to get into the logical gaps in the film. These are clearly things that the makers wanted to take the audience for granted about. Most of them are quick fixes to get from one situation to another. 
There is this slight sliver of story that might have worked had energies not been spent in making the story non-linear. The story had enough meat, even without the backstories, to make for a decent film. But, it just doesn't work out with the combination of the performances, the side-tracks the story takes, the songs and dances. Quirks like Kamaal R Khan's character are more irritating than anything else, though it does mean he played it well.  Yet, that doesn't make its inclusion an advantage for the film.
Saying that this story had potential is giving it a little more credit than it deserves because a lot of it needed to be edited out rather than just changed. We'll continue to wait for a good thriller to come our way. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
