
Four friends. One girl, three boys. Delhi. Attitude times a few. To top it off, one of them is a cabinet minister's son. They seem to be interested in just having a good time. Given this set-up Fugly actually caught me by surprise when a group of four friends who seemed interested only in having a good time got worked up about social issues - be it eve-teasing or the law and order-politician nexus. It is a shame then, that Fugly doesn't capitalize on the fact that these issues touch the characters' lives personally and ours too. Despite it being so easy to identify with them, we could barely care about what happens to them.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The culprit is the paradoxical pace. There is so much going on in the film to the extent that it almost feels like a thriller. Yet, the dramatization, the slow-motions, the extra time spent on elaborating on a scene - kills the film. I am a huge fan of silences and impregnated moments. I love lingering scenes. But, Fugly shows how that can go all wrong when you want to tell the maker, "Got it, move on already!" I guess there is a time, a place and a movie for everything.
The four lead characters are played by actors who are either too loud or too flat. Amongst the other actors, of course only Jimmy Sheirgill looks like someone we can take seriously. But, then again, he becomes repetitive and predictable. 



I doubt any of this can be blamed on the actors when the writing is haywire - in screenplay and dialogue. The story by itself is interesting, but it has these irrelevant sub-plots. Almost like, before coming up with the story the writers came up with a list of the issues they wanted to address - eve-teasing, corruption in law and order, hooliganism and ruthlessness in politics, angst of the youth, insensitivity of the media, prositution, gay prostitution, rave parties and so on. They then came up with a story to fit in everything. And that's no way to tell a story, is it?
The song and dance sequences further break the jarred flow. They only make matters worse with run-time already stretched beyond patience levels due to some editing/screenplay decisions. Style can add to content, but not this laboured kind of style.
I'd still like to believe that Fugly could've been a different film, even better maybe, if they fixed the pace issue. But then again, maybe that would be a different film altogether. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
