
After the initial "let's get your attention, so you are in your seat" romantic track, Holiday surprises you with  a decent, thickening plot between an army officer and terrorists. But, as it goes with this genre in Hindi, there are way too many plot holes. And even if you ignore them, there are too many side-tracks in the form of songs and sub-plots to take the film seriously.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You have a lead lady (Sonakshi Sinha) who can box, pole vault, play rugby, run, do karate while the lead actor woos her.  In the one song that focuses on her as a character, the main point seems to be Akshay Kumar's dance moves. Come to think of it, I don't think any song has her even lip-syncing. Looks like comic relief ain't enough no more, you need romantic relief. Speaking of which, Govinda is such a misfit and/or waste as comic relief here.
These come across as fillers with the intention of selling a product that you are not confident about. Add to the mix, desperate stylisation of the hero and dialogue that doesn't belong. Which is such a shame because despite the gaps in logic and logistics the plot is not half bad.  



Akshay Kumar fans then might find some respite in the Akshay Kumar-ness of the film. While I have no clue exactly what such a fan looks for, I'd say the actions scenes are cool while they last, though there aren't way too many of them. Hope that helps. 
On the other hand though, there is hardly any challenge for him from the other side. Both, the villain character and actor are just too dull to make you want to root one way or the other. 
Thematically too, Holiday tends to get into the preachy zone, almost reprimanding you for not appreciating the efforts of soldiers at the border. 
Yet, I'd call my 3 hours in the movie hall a success, considering it is nowhere bad to what I expected it to be. Do I give a film extra points for that? Naah. It is just what it is. A casual TV watch if you chance upon it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
