
The philosophy that revenge is making an aware choice between evil and worse evil is not new. It almost sanctions evil as the right thing to do. There are no surprises there. Yet, Mom as a revenge movie is engaging. To make an engaging movie out of a not-so-engaging story is quite a mean feat.

                        While the overall plot is as run-of-the-mill as the next revenge thriller, some subtleties are done really well.
                    
In fact, Mom is so predictable that if you put the trailer and the theme together you can predict the climax a good half an hour before it begins, if not even earlier. “How” it happens has a twist and the challenges that come in the way are unexpected, but that is not what keeps you hooked. Also, the pace is not swift so you are not really at the edge of your seat. The moments stall more to let you soak the emotion in, rather than to create suspense.
This emotion I think is what keeps you from getting bored. The parents' sorrow and frustration is apparent yet not once goes over-the-top. Maybe because every time my teenage daughter steps out of the house alone, the tiny nag at the back of my mind doesn't relent, till she's back – it is easier for me to get involved in the film. Maybe because though I can't put myself for a moment in Devki's (Sri Devi) place, I find my comfort in only sympathising with her – I feel like I would have engaged even more had the topic not been so close to reality.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


That is the power of the performances. Adnan Siddiqui, Akshaye Khanna, Abhimanyu Singh all play their part without getting in the way of the story. Interestingly on Nawazuddin Siddqui as DK seemed a little out of place because the character is quirky – slightly away from the tone of the film.  Both Sridevi and Sajal Ali bawl their eyes out without a decibel seeming out of place. Even as I child I had to work hard on ignoring Sridevi's accent. It didn't help that the roles she played in those times required her to overact. Here, she is in control and the script supports her restraint.
While the overall plot is as run-of-the-mill as the next revenge thriller, some subtleties are done really well. For instance, the role reversal in genders before and after are such subtle examples of sexism. Not the kind that we can blame movies for. The kind we appreciate in movies because that's how a day in the life of a typical woman is in real life.



I don't know if Mom could have been a better film if the writing were tighter. Its pauses had a reason that might not be in line with that of a thriller. I don't know if Mom could have been a better film if the writing at least tried to be unpredictable. What I know is I will look forward to director, Ravi Udyawar's next work. I wouldn't mind watching more films written by him, Girish Kohli or Kona Venkat Rao. I certainly want to watch the next Sridevi film, something that I couldn't imagine saying 25-30 years ago. That is good enough. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
