
You roll your eyes as you realise Heropanti is yet another "love of my life" vs. "parental consent" film. As the parents (read extended family) get more and more vicious your heart sinks because another realisation hits you - this happens in real life, even now. Unfortunately, for Heropanti, real life and decades of films on the topic had desensitized the audience to these issues in the 90s.  With nothing new to say and a hero who wears pink lipstick to the rescue, Heropanti becomes a 2.5 hour long, predictable drone. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I think opening titles are an artform by themselves. Besides the creativity that goes into making them, they set the tone of a film. So, it was a huge turn-off when Heropanti had just the two lead actors' and director's names in the opening title. Not because it was short, but doesn't it show conceit? To me, that decision says how little the other team members mattered in the making of the film. 
I guess a bell should ring when you hear the name Tiger Shroff in a film called, "Hero"panti and the popular tune from Subhash Ghai's film that shot Jackie Shroff (Tiger Shroff's father, for the uninitiated) to Hero status in the early 80s. Such tactics tell you upfront how strong the makers' confidence on the product itself is. 



Fair enough, they have tried to inject Hero-ness into Tiger Shroff by giving him some so-bad-that-they-are-good lines - which he delivers with as much style as is possible to make them look more fake and forced than they already are. Then of course, they are repeated so that we can tell that a scene is setup so that the line could be repeated.  
Surrounded by such superficiality then, it is a miracle, that for a short while you get involved in the drama. You worry that the hero is in a tight spot and that he might get face brutal violence that you don't have the stomach for. That has to be because of the aura created around the villains. 
Uncharacteristically for the film, Prakash Raj's character, Chaudhary is grey enough to keep you interested. Of course, Prakash Raj, is relatively restrained and has you both worried for the hero and yet, you see yourself sympathizing with him, even if briefly. Unfortunately but not surprisingly, the writers do not capitalize on the emotion that this character evokes. 
As is expected, the women are pretty tools for the hero and the villain to fight over. Her love for the hero is taken for granted. Her father emotionally blackmails her into believing that she is his property and so on. But then again, that's what women in such situations face in real life. 
Also, in real life, starlets get a chance to play an action hero with various shades of pink on as lipstick. No, I cannot get over it. At the risk of sounding sexist for wanting to deprive men of cosmetics, such on-the-face make-up is unacceptable even for women. And you cannot escape the distraction for a minute because Tiger Shroff is in almost every scene (after his entry). 
Not that one was expecting great shakes from a film called Heropanti. But, that the makers, with a 100% fresh starcast don't even attempt to break any mould is disheartening. In fact, they try to milk the popularity of a 20-year old film. Just sad. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
