
Tu Hai Mera Sunday strings together many observations from every day life. In fact, you are taking a peek into just a few weeks of the lives of five men. This is done in a breezy manner. However, every once in a while it breaks into intense drama and/or philosophy. This break in the light breeze holds the film back. 

                        A two hour version of “What is this life if full of care, we have not time to stand and stare”
                    
The film thankfully doesn't spend too much time on the history of the five lives, but we come to know these men reasonably well by the way they talk to each other and others around them. They are kept together by their weekly game of football. Their lives, individually held together by their Sunday football time.
The writing has a lightness about it that hooks you in, even if you are not completely involved with the characters. Not only does it have organic, daily life humor even the flow of the stories is smooth. Through the film, you can see the comment on lack of space in urban life – physically and mentally. This philosophy of not “standing and caring” keeps a low profile and suddenly has an outburst and you can see through the cracks.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You decipher the structure. The major religions/communities are represented through the characters. It is by design. At least two characters stay in areas that are dominantly populated by people from their community. One is a nice guy, one is a nice guy with a bad boy image, one is a nice guy but has angst filled within, one is a nice guy who wants to rebel, one is unhappily married. One has issues with his parents, one with his kids. One has trouble at work, one is comfortable in his skin. By the end, all but one of their stories are resolved nicely, without much ado. 
While this sounds formulaic and is too, to a large extent, there are charming subtleties. For instance one isn't aspirational – that's a rare trait for one of the main heroes of a story. Then, Tu Hai Mera Sunday does so well with its romantic scenes – maybe because they wouldn't necessarily qualify as romantic in the typical sense of the word. You sense the romance because the chemistry is obvious, not only to us as an audience, but to the two parties too. And we know they know and are trying to play it out so that it works out for them. These were my favourite bits in the film.



A lot of Tu Hai Mera Sunday's charm lies in the hands of its performers. And they don't let the film down. So grounded are each of the performances, that as an afterthought I wondered if the characters were written so that the actors could be just themselves. 
If it were not for the overt philosophisation and dramatisation, Tu Hai Mera Sunday would have worked much better. But, the characters are a combination of what defines them as humans and what they would like to be. Which is why the dramatisation seems bizarre. In real life, we don't really become we really want to be in one sudden stroke, right?

                        While this sounds formulaic and is too, to a large extent, there are charming subtleties.
                    
Also, such films feel like they come from a very personal space. A space that is so close to the writer/director's heart that the audience is kept at a distance, like a witness. As if they want to say, “what do you know about me or my life?” In that sense, it precludes judgment. This is not specific to Tu Hai Mera Sunday, but more about films with relatively smaller budgets, slice-of-life themes that are philosophical takes on life.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
