
If you look closely, you will find a tiny line and half a scene which involves Main Tera Hero's hero, Seenu (Varun Dhawan) being an actual hero - when he empowers Sunaina (Ileana D'cruz) to stand up for herself. A couple other tiny needles I found in the haystack is a couple of glimpses of great comic timing by Ileana D'Cruz, Saurabh Shukla and Arunoday Singh. That is all there is to Main Tera Hero. The rest is, the film fooling itself into believing that it is funny under the garb of mindless comedy.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


However, what Main Tera Hero makes no pretensions about is that it has no interest in taking anything seriously. So, we have Seenu move randomly from a small town to Bangalore and take on a mean cop (Arunoday Singh) who is obsessed and manically possessive about the girl he is in love with, Sunaina (Ileana D'Cruz), who of course our man Seenu falls in love with at first sight. Only that we have a twist that comes conveniently at half-mark, when you have stopped caring a long time ago. Yeah, Main Tera Hoon is that kind of a film.
I would have complained about how the women are at the mercy of the silly games the men play in this game, but then I should know not to do that right from the title of the film.



The attempt at comedy is really laughable - most certainly, not in a good way. Its the same old tricks you would have found in a David Dhawan film a couple of decades ago - the slaps, the contrived situations which get worse by the minute. You hit your palm on your forehead and stop yourself from wondering who comes up with stuff like this. 
Yet, I must admit that Main Tera Hero has much more focus in its plot than an average David Dhawan film.  So much so that, Shakti Kapoor's subplot seems like an afterthought - oops, we are too focused on the central plot by our own standards. That or they thought the film was falling short in terms of runtime. Either case, what an eyesore. 
The performances are those that belong in a slapstick film. Varun Dhawan monkeys around, Nargis Fakhri adequately continues to annoy, and Anupam Kher makes a fool of himself yet again. Like I said earlier, Ileana D'Cruz, Saurabh Shukla and Arunoday Singh manage a laugh or two, but just about. 
What boggles my mind is - the 8.30AM show was a full house and so seemed the next one as I walked out after the film. What is as cute as it is despairing is that there was a group in the cinema hall which was laughing out loud and having fun. Sometimes, I wish I could just do that. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
