
Deep friendships. Friends that take advantage of you. We all have at least a couple of both types. Rangrezz makes a  brave effort at showing you both the sides unlike what you are used to seeing in Bollywood. Unfortunately, it slacks of at times and takes the easier beaten-down route to redeem itself a little later - leading to a very uneven second half and an extremely dissatisfying conclusion.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Rangrezz starts off with a collage of beautiful Mumbai monsoons in a heavily grey, tone pretty much resembling Mumbai what it looks like in the season. My surprise began with those initial shots. A little later when the colors and unwarranted close-ups come in, I was back to being comfortable because the movie began looking like what I had expected. And yet again, I was pleasantly being pulled into the set-up - the characters, the relationships, the wit and charm. Some of the dark humor really took the cake. This involvement was rudely disrupted with songs. Once the mandatory numbers were done with, the meat of the story began and was engagingly narrated to a wonderful peak at interval. 
After the break too, there are a few very interesting twists that catch you off-guard. Amazingly enough, they are not that largely unpredictable that you feel cheated. You see signs of the twist earlier, only that you don't think too much of it. Only problem though is these twists are balanced off with equally inane and typical turn of events. 
This wavelike movement in the writing gets more and more annoying and is completely blotched up at the end. Thankfully, the dialogue end of the writing department has taken its job very seriously and has come with some hilarious and witty lines. Completely supported by able delivery to whom most of them are given - Vijay Verma (Pakkya) and Rajpal Yadav (Maa). Jacky Bhagnani's dubbing is off which doesn't help his attempts to emote. I broke up laughing at a supposedly intense scene because Jacky Bhagnani is speaking and yet the camera is at an uncharacteristically, safe, crane top angle. The women are mostly redundant - they are either snubbed down or over-protected by the men around. 
Amongst the rest of the cast Amitosh Nagpal (Winu), Lushin Dubey (Mrs. Chaturvedi) and Pankaj Tripathi (Pande) leave an impression, especially considering the limited screen-time they have. The wonderful bit is that some of these characters stick and entertain despite being caricatures - more so Vijay Pakkya, Maa and Mrs. Chaturvedi. Or even the cute, petite grandmom. 
Another bit, I really enjoyed about Rangrezz are a couple of main threads being left unresolved in a very matter of factly manner. It's great that the makers decided to keep some details out, especially considering that the film is already a little too long. (Why not cut the songs out!)
Unfortunately, Rangrezz insists on becoming a message film. The extremity and intensity with which the film is narrated almost makes you wonder if it is autobiographical - because some events are too off the chart to be imagined. 
Yet, Rangrezz ends up making you wonder about people and relationships. So, many turn of events in the film, do make you nod - "yep, as unbelievable as it looks, it does happen." Maybe, it's because I didn't expect such maturity from a Jacky Bhagnani film, preconceptions be hailed! But, I am looking forward to the next Priyadarshan film, just in case he decides to go the whole length and make a film that is not bogged down by the need for songs or being filmy. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
