
Some films just bother you at a conceptual level. Youngistaan claims to represent the youth and I shudder at the thought of the youth - you and I - being so shallow and superficial in our approach to problems at the national level. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


What do I want from my representative in the government? Only my lookout? Only whether my point of view has been represented? I don't think so. I want what is generally good for the society as a whole. But, Youngistaan has created a Prime Minister who thinks his way is the way to go. 
I consider myself pretty liberal so, I don't really care about my Prime Minister's girlfriend problems or daddy issues. Everyone has them, he is human, he is allowed to have them too. Am I okay with him having a live-in relationship? Now, my liberalism is being put to test. I am okay with friends, but a role model. Hey, wait! In a film about the future of the country, why am I even asking this question? 



Fine, Youngistaan doesn't talk about just this issue. From the huge ocean of politics the two and a quarter topics they pick are change in calculation of rate of interest on loans for a particular range of people, a scam of some sort, and a quarter of a nod at farmer suicides. 
The accountant in me couldn't resist laughing at the implications of the interest rate change that our PM Abhimanyu Kaul (Jackky Bhagnani). The build up of the scam led to something so standard (I know, it's sad that there is something like a standard scam) that you wonder what the big issue was. The look of surprise when it is mentioned to our PM that agriculture is our main sector, is actually insulting. His superficial solution, makes you feel worse. 
Then you consider for a moment if Youngistaan is a story of a 28 year old boy who is emotionally blackmailed into becoming the prime minister of the country. But it doesn't work that way either. It loses that battle at its name itself, right? It wants to represent the youth. It is not an individual's story yet it spends too much time on the love life of that individual while trying to deal with national crises via some jingoism, of course. 
A storyline with such a premise would be a difficult sell even with the best actors at your disposal. Jackky Bhagnani does come across as sincere. But there is so little time spent on writing a character that is so important, that like I said, I doubt any other actor could've helped. Same goes for Neha Sharma who's supposedly the supportive girlfriend. Again, such a wonderful chance of writing a layered character wasted. A similar waste of talent is Farouque Shaikh. May his soul rest in peace.
Sure, there is an attempt at trying something new. It feel flat on its face, but at least they tried. Oh well. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
