
Why do you lie to your partner? To avoid confrontation, to protect them from getting hurt, to protect yourself from hurting, and maybe because you did something to get rid of boredom that they wouldn't approve of. You could blame them, you could blame yourself, but the point is that you end up lying, when you are expected to be honest. This is true of both, men and women. Shaadi Ke Side Effects expresses a very skewed view of this aspect of married life, in a far too stretched-out and repetitive fashion. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I understand there are women out there who are like Trisha Roy (Vidya Balan) - obsessed by their child, want nothing to do with their career, friends, husband. And yes, as shocking as it sounds there are men out there like (tackily named) Siddharth Roy (Farhan Akhtar) who think of their child as the third person. But, I guess obsession by a partner begets apathy towards that obsession by the other partner - the obsession could be sports for one couple, socialization for another, food for the third and so on. But, none of this made interesting copy in Shaadi Ke Side Effects.
The stereotyping of women is infuriating. But then hey, there are only so many Hindi films in which it is not. In cases like these, I convince myself the makers are not generalizing, they are narrating the story of one man and one woman and their relationship. And then, you see her sister who is similar. And you smile, cool down and say, "okay, it runs in the genes." But, Shaadi Ke Side Effects doesn't stop at that. There are sweeping statements about parents of little children. Even under the satire garb, the exaggeration is gag-worthy. 



And despite all of this, I saw myself taking sides - for the record, more the man's in this case than the woman's. At one point, when things went the exact opposite of what Siddharth wanted, many in the audience, including me, blurted a "oh no!". Towards the end, I almost furled an abuse at Trisha out loud. This is commendable, considering that other than the fact I know such characters exist, I didn't identify with them at all. 100% credit to Vidya Balan and Farhan Akhtar for that. Ram Kapoor and Vir Das do add their bit of normal and quirk to the mix, but it is all about the lead couple. 
But for them, Shaadi Ke Side Effects is one of those films that attempt to find a solution for a serious problem, but don't want to lose out on audience by taking the subject seriously. Given my overall angst towards the film and its take, I appreciate that they do try to say something that is universally acceptable - to each his own. 
The problem though is that they try to inject it with humor using an exaggerated dose of hyperbole - only to end up flat on its face. Worse yet, you have seen almost all the quippy one-liners in the trailers. Other than a couple of witticisms in the first 15-20 minutes, there is hardly any new material that makes you laugh later in the film. 
This is one film that shouldn't have been longer than a 100 minutes. Each of the 50 minutes after that 100-minute mark is as boring as the Roys' marriage. That is one-third of the film. Not done at all. The music is decent, but when it adds minutes that elongates the experience, that too becomes annoying. 
Relationships bud, they blossom, they peak, they plateau, you struggle to make changes to them and then wait to see if they bud again or die. Except that with Shaadi Ke Side Effects is about the struggle. It is cute that the couple is grappling with the relationship and wants to find a way out rather than cop out. You might want them to sort it out. But the problem is that you don't necessarily want to witness it.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
