
Friendship. It's made to look so fickle in Gunday that you feel nothing for any of the characters or their relationships. And love of course, is superficial. In any case, love drama, friendship melodrama, and a few abuses directed towards the "system" later, Gunday is spread too thin on an already flimsy plot line. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Gunday is one of those films that make you wonder why it was made at all. The action is plain and pretty much boring. The performances are overtly stylish and overbearing. The dialogue delivery by one and all is too focussed on making an impact without having any support from the dialogue itself. 
The writing is so predictable that even if you haven't seen the trailer you can tell what's going to happen next. If you've seen the trailer, that's pretty much all you need to know. It is a shudder-worthy shame that this story about friendship nods its hat to Sholay. 



Given all these aspects, you could keep yourself from blaming the cast. Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor flare their nostrils appropriately and seem to have worked extra hard on moving their lips to indicate impact and energy. There is a one off scene each for Ranveer Singh and Priyanka Chopra which gives them room to let go of the forced style and actually emote. As one would expect, it is too little and too late. 
DO NOT get me started on how Irrfan Khan is wasted here. 
A little too late also comes the courtesy mumbo-jumbo about how the protagonists do what they do because of the "system". That is a tough one to sell, given their attitude from when they were shown as 12-13 year olds. 
The only silver lining is that the first half is reasonably well-paced. There was also this flicker of a comment on how best friends can take each other for granted, but as the movie progressed, it felt like only I saw it. But, other than that Gunday is as mediocre as it gets.
But then again, what do you expect from a film that has characters grow up from being children to adults with the camera on their running feet only to break into a song introducing themselves. Or a film that has too many themes and doesn't take a single one seriously - love, friendship, angst against system. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
