
You try to summarize what you felt about a film and you are at a loss. The opening sequence was cool (even if inspired), but the fart jokes were well, fart jokes; but that scene between mother and daughter was pretty well-written for a film of this genre, but the film was not paced well; but the climax was one of the best ever, but the songs are all over the place even though they are nice...And so on. That of course is One By Two. It has a chic, Hollywood rom-com feel to it, except that it is Indianized with songs, etc. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, like the ping-pong ball between Amit's (Abhay Deol) mom (Rati Agnihotri) and dad (Jayant Kriplani), you move from a well-done thing about the film to something shrug-worthy and back;  from a witty line/scene to toilet humor; from Amit's story to Samara's (Preeti Desai).
However, the one big thing that worked for me is the concept. At about minute twenty, I reminded myself to note down when the lead pair would meet. And then, slowly, as the idea started getting clearer, it got interesting. But - there had to be a but, right? - the two individual stories were more or less boring. What is worse is, it comes across as the writers somehow knew it and to cover it up they added lame humor that didn't belong. The only curiosity left then, was how the two stories would intersect, but unfortunately that is not the point of the film. 



Samara, a struggling dancer, goes through the regular ups and downs of any story that would have a struggling dancer as a lead character. And yet, its just refreshing to see a woman in a rom-com spend so much on-screen time and energy on something other than a man. Of course, her character could have been written in better detail with all the layers that were exposed to us. Even within the limited scope, her character's relationship with her mother was given one nice, long scene to breathe. If only, it went a little deeper. It doesn't help that Preeti Desai doesn't have a whole range of expressions. This makes your empathy for Samara stand-offish. 
Amit's story on the other hand is stuck, just stuck, right from the beginning. But, maybe its intentional. The thing about defining your lead character a boring makes him exactly that - boring. And how long can you stick around with a boring character, let alone root for him. And yet, when Amit does the right thing, you give him a pat on his back. When he vents, you are ready for his character graph to do something that gets your interest, but remember? He is stuck. 
Abhay Deol does Amit's crazy venting bit with "pakao-ed" pretty hilariously. But, we didn't really doubt his acting capabilities, did we? What is frustrating is that the entire sequence doesn't fit in the film at all.  Amit is never shown as being frustrated with life in general, but suddenly has this outburst. The outburst makes sense, but not that Amit had it. 
The side characters do add a little spice to the ongoings, which are bearable to a point. And then they become repetitive. I would like to see more of Preetika Chawla though. 
And actually, I don't mind seeing more from Devika Bhagat, in the hope that next time, she'll make every thing about her story and the film crisper and tighter.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
