
Jayantabhai Ki Love Story showed very little potential from it's trailers. So, despite all my needs of wanting to watch every film with neutrality, I went in expecting very little, if at all. The best I can say, is that I came out unscathed because of almost zero expectations. The 'bhaigiri' end of Jayantabhai Ki Love Story is unethusiastic and the love story end is stagnant. The film is pretty much flat throughout, except for a little ruffle in the feathers in the name of a climax.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, plain is the love story, that even after Jayanta (Vivek Oberoi) and Simran (Neha Sharma) take the 'big step' as a couple, they go back to their old relationship soon enough. Tiffs vanish and all becomes well, all too soon. 
Similarly, the underworld track of the film gathers no momentum at all. The conflict that they start doesn't see much change. Both patronage and animosity are superficial. You never figure why one is loyal to another or why they are at another person's throat. It is said so, and thus it should be believed. And the two tracks have very little do with each other. Whatever little intersection exists, is lame enough to be ignored. 
The rest is filled with slime-balls in the corporate world who seemed to be worse than infamous casting couches or with formulaic songs shot at exotic locations or gratuitous show of cleavage or other such inanity. 
Amidst the limp stories then, the smart-Aleckry in the dialogue brings in a laugh or two. You can also scoff at the Munnabhai references. Also, because everything else is so devoid of energy, the over-eager performances make you applaud their attempt at putting life into the characters. 
It is amazing then, that there are producers who willingly go through with such projects. What in Jayantabhai Ki Love Story wasn't told already and which frame had something that wasn't told in a better way elsewhere? You wonder, and only wonder. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
