
Miss Lovely - takes you into a world you can live without going into - the sleazy world of "horror" films that are intended to titillate. A world of two brothers making such films - one who wants to move on to porn films and the other who wants to make a clean, romantic one. It is an uncomfortable ambiance and very intentionally so. Which is fine, only that it overtly tries to go all "art-house" cinema on you.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Flitting between showing you the behind-the-scenes of B/C grade films and the inner angst of a crew member whose heart isn't into it, Miss Lovely's writing doesn't do justice to either the plot or its characters. 
Sure, I admit, I am not the biggest fan of B-C-D grade films, so the theme of the film itself isn't as appealing. On the other hand, I am always ready to travel with a character, whatever its background. But, Miss Lovely, denies me that. And that's more frustratingly than usual because it didn't have to do much to hook me in. 
It has the most brilliant performances and the setting is as real as it gets. It has quirks that catch you smiling wryly at the dark humor. It is commendable indeed, that with a theme such as the porn world, the movie doesn't get too graphic. Given all of that, I am ready to let go of the typical elements the film engages in - the jealous dying "star", the clamoring of struggling actors who can stoop to any levels to land a role in a film, and so on.
What the writing fails to understand is that with a setting that is far removed from our real worlds, it becomes ever so important to engage the viewer either in the narrative or with the characters. 
One thing that troubles me with films is when the camera gets over-excited. I understand the hand-held jitters bring out the confusion on screen - both apparent and inner, but the impact on me is lost when its overdone. In fact, in this one the hand-held sequences are done with close-ups that ironically distance you from what's going on in the film. 
That's the root there, the connect - which isn't there. Certainly a downer, for a film that wants you to experience, rather than just superficially know. Yet, you cannot take away from the fact, that it is brave indeed to make a film like Miss Lovely.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
