
"How did you do it?" A question every magician takes pride in not answering. Of course, Dhoom 3's magician, Saahir (Aamir Khan) is asked that too, but as an audience it peaked my interest only half-heartedly. Mainly because It is a tad predictable despite being indigestible. Two things in a movie that I have very little patience for - predictability and implausibility.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But, then again, Dhoom 3 has Abhishek Bachchan and Uday Chopra trying to pull off Rajni-style stunts. How much more meta can unbelievability get? To their credit they do their best in bringing out laughter, whether well-meant or not is a matter of 'to each his own'. I did feel like observing a two minute silence in mourning as I saw Uday Chopra get a better role as comic relief than Abhishek Bachchan as sidekick. Oh well. 
But then again, with Aamir Khan around every one is a sidekick. So, Aamir Khan does his bit with an intense look persistently on his face for the first half of the film. It is annoying, but then again I walked in expecting that. But pleasantly, he shifts gears in the second half and actually pulls off his role very cleverly. 
That leaves Ms. Kaif to start with some "Indian Goddess song and dance" thing. It does so happen that her role is a little more than just that. Just about enough for the feminist in me to not say, "she was used as a prop." Even so, the performance itself doesn't require any great emotion. Anyway, what place does emotion have in an action flick, other than superficial.
And superficially infused it is, the romance, the dedication a son has for his father, the revenge - all of them seem to just be fillers in what the movie is really meant for - action. The action sequences themselves are some shoddy, some pretty neat, all of it inspired from something we have seen elsewhere. Yet, for those of us who haven't seen too many action films, some bits can be a new experience. 
Similarly, the story will not be a new experience for anyone who has seen The Prestige. And for those people the comparison will be equivalent to blasphemy - what Ghajini was to [Memento}(http://wogma.com/article/my-favorite-movies/ "Memento Review"), Dhoom 3 is to The Prestige.
I just don't understand how the audience is expected to look over the fact that Dhoom 3 is nothing but a 3 hour long chase sequence with not just enough thrills. To add fuel to fire, what the makers thought as important is repeated and in slo-mo for effect. Sigh.
And yet, I wouldn't be surprised at all if Dhoom 3 finds its share of takers and more. sigh again

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
