
You have settled down in life, your kids are doing well for themselves. You are all set to enjoy life carefree. And boom life hits you. You are asked to come-of-age all over again. Club 60 might come across as a film of one such man, but it also goes on to tell you that he, his troubles and tragedy not that unique after all. Just like when you look around, you see that like you, everyone has problems. They just choose to deal with them differently. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There is something very delightful about films that take on topics related to the elderly - not the glamorous Baghbaan way, but more like the Listen Amaya way. Especially, when you have charming actors like Farouque Shaikh and Sarika play the lead roles. Not only do they make the characters believable, but they make you care for them. And even if that should be the norm, we know it is very difficult to come by in Hindi films. 
Yet again, Sarika does that one scene which completely bowls you over and brings a lump to the throat and more. I now look forward to every film that Farouque Shaikh chooses to do, because the films by themselves are interesting. And as unfair as it may sound, he could sleepwalk through his role as Taariq in Club 60. 
Raghuveer Yadav plays his Munna bhai with great finesses. While playing a sleazeball must be one of the easiest in an actor's range of talent, playing a sleazeball who convinces you that he is good-naturedly so right from the first scene has to be a rare one. And it doesn't come across as inconsistent at all.
And yet these performances are not the best thing about Club 60. A pleasant surprise are Sharat Saxena and Tinu Anand. The characters they play could easily have become caricatures. Yet, that is avoided with finesse and you see them go through their highs and lows with unexpected grace and dignity. So much so that a fine performance by Satish Shah is side-lined. 
Where Club 60 suffers then - other than the low-budget-induced-production-values - is the writing. It gets a little repetitive, and the film stretches out a good 15-20 minutes too long. The situations created for each of the characters becomes a tad stereotypical. Even so, you cannot help but want to know more about them because you've grown to care for them. They do remind you of your parents and their group of friends. Alas, the climax is a little too dramatized and drastic for the tone the film maintains through the first two hours. 
For many, the film might be a good enough on TV watch, but I just couldn't help giving it an extra nudge for the heart it takes to make a film like this. One which takes an understanding, even if a slightly patronizing, look at the generation that's over the hill. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
