
Love conquers all. Or does it? Whether it does or not, do you care? At least R...Rajkumar doesn't make you.   It makes you feel love and romance is just a means to meet the end of making an action film with Shahid Kapoor as the star. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Shahid Kapoor does make the most of it though. His comic timing as required for a film of this nature is decent, and he does his best to emote anger, fatigue, worry and the rest too. Unfortunately, the comic lines are either over-writtent to sound way too "filmy" or are inane. 
Similarly, Sonakshi Sinha lands herself in another role which requires her to play second fiddle to the male lead. Though her introduciton on screen with a fight sequence makes you believe that this one might just have some meat for her. You see glimpses of variety that she can do, but it is too little and certainly disheartening after what we saw her do with Lootera. Yes, I know, I am still stuck there. 
That aside, you have Sonu Sood with a lot of brawn. It's very interesting that R...Rajkumar, a film that clearly wants to hit the masala film lover in you, has a villain who is better looking that the lead pair put together. 
Considering that I have spent three paragraphs on the actors, it is safe to assume that there is very little to talk about in the other departments. The writing least of all. It certainly didn't have material to be stretched into a screenplay of 2.5 hours. I must say though, for the flat and unimaginatively predictable overall plot it does manage to bring in an unanticipated turn of events. But not to worry, it goes back to being as was expected in five minutes. 
There is a lot of action packed in too. Some of it is even a little innovative at the beginning. But, the purpose is so masked and the killings so random that you can stay amused only so much. Add slo-mo and close-ups and you have tuned me off. 
Of course, that means the cinematography is dramatic and the background music loud as is associated with any film of this genre. That then leaves the music department, which well, might have foot-tapping material, but the lyrics are outright awful. And somehow awful lyrics almost always translate to sleazy dances by women. 
Yet, I wouldn't like to take away anything from all the heart that Shahid Kapoor puts in the dances. The choreography is mind-bogglingly complicated, as they are in any Prabhu Deva film. Also, those too become repetitive and eventually dry up. Not to mention, as usual, there is nothing graceful about dances set up by him. 
In that sense then, R...Rajkumar is exactly what you expected it to be. If not as a Prabhu Deva film, as a film that aspires to entertain with masala. And yet, the house was full, with equally enthusiastic whistles and hooting at Shahid Kapoor, Sonakshi and Sonu Sood. Correct, I don't understand this world. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
