
It is a Tigmanshu Dhulia masala film. So, it is as Tigmanshu Dhulia as other Tigmanshu Dhulia films. And it is as masala as other masala films. Which means you don't get anything new and a hotchpotch of a combination. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You have an earthy, stylish element to the film which tries to keep the film outside the urban, polished looks associated with Saif Ali Khan (yes, yes except Omkara, of course). And this style starts out with a bang, at the opening credits itself. Some of the most slickly done work while keeping it rugged too. 
The film itself, begins well after the opening too. Except for an abrupt and badly edited opening sequence, the film sets a nice tone of friendship between Raja (Saif Ali Khan) and Rudra (Jimmy Sheirgill). The camaraderie is cute and yet, has a rugged kind of strength about it. But, unfortunately, the writing doesn't hold as the movie progresses. It is just one big enemy after the other, gun fights and more fights, till you are immune to it all.
There are breaks in  the form of one-liners - some witty, some not so much - all of them delivered as if it were to become the most iconic dialogue of the decade. Yes, it does translate either to whistles or eye-rolls, depending on your "filmy" appetite. 
The other breaks come in the form of songs that you wish didn't exist, let alone show up randomly in the film and be just plain awful. Mahie Gill in "Don't touch my body..." made me so uncomfortable; didn't help that I was sitting between two men who were strangers. It has as much to do with her costume, her moves, the lyrics, the men letching at her on screen as it is with the setting - a number like that set in a wedding as entertainment for the groom and his friends and family; out in the open; in broad daylight! It just felt wrong.
Once you are past that though, there isn't much offensive in terms of vulgarity. There are religious remarks and some social ones too. The social comments take guise under patriotism and Robin-Hood-ism, but come across as sides. They show up rather abruptly. 
The editing too is rather abrupt especially in some of the action sequences. Many, in fact come across as rather amateur execution. It is a shame since the action choreography is pretty cool, even if in spots. 
The only thing going for the film then is the performances or rather the screen presence of the main players. Except for Raja and Rudra, none of the other characters have the writing going for them. The two other lead actors then, Sonakshi Sinha and Vidyut Jamwal come too late in the film and/or have little to do to really deserve a fair comment on performances. 
Saif Ali Khan and Jimmy Sheirgill on the other hand make the most of the rustic roles they are given and it is a pleasure to see them in this setting. Though, thinking of them as simple, men who want to earn an honest living after the first action sequence is hard to digest. But, anyway, it is irrelevant to what happens in the rest of the film.
Ultimately, though, there are only so many revenge films one can watch which offer no variety at all. A couple of smart lines here and there don't cut the deal. Especially when almost everything else is sub-par. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
