
One (wo)man can make a difference. And if there happens to be a man who is in love with her and is willing to give it his all, nothing like it. That's how, dear friend, you come upon a romantic comedy that takes up social causes. Putting it this way, might be a little unfair, belittling the larger purpose of the film too. But then the dry and functional manner in which events take place do not get you involved at all.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Starting from the basics, a romantic film has to be able to convey that the couple is in love with each other. Just by pointing out an age difference, the matter isn't taken care of, is it? Doesn't the audience need to be convinced that they love each other? Some chemistry other than a superficial "good deed"? 
Superficial - that is the word that comes to mind through the film - be it the romance, the comedy or the social causes that our lady, Dia (Kareena Kapoor) takes up. By the end, almost every thing that happens earlier comes across as a set-up. Any joke made, anything negative or positive said ties up neatly in the end to either be related back to or reversed in a very contrived fashion. 
Given that the dialogue and comic lines work very briefly and you have seen most of them in the trailer, you are left with the actual cause taken up by Dia. That and how the situation is handled could have been an engaging affair. But well, it gets repetitive and was anyway predictable from the word go. 
With way too many songs in the beginning and an avoidable narrative thread to the film, Gori Tere Pyaar Mein is also too long. Sure, the narrator is also used as an alter ego, but it just makes the transition, well, superficial. :)
It doesn't help that Kareena Kapoor wears designer outfits even when she's staying in a remote village in Gujrat. I guess we should just be thankful that she repeats the outfits. 
The only silver lining, however, is that Kareena Kapoor gives a decent performance. Imran Khan is his usual self - doesn't impress but doesn't annoy either.  The cast in the Gujrat village though were refreshingly at home. From the little boy to the village head, they all added to the ambiance of the village.
Yet again, a romantic comedy that is underwhelming. At least, in this case we didn't expect any different. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
