
Doesn't it actually feel like every actor needs to have an action film in which he/she is the honest and/or do-gooder fighting against the corrupt system? Actually, it is more specific than that. It is like every actor should have a film like this with Prakash Raj as the villain. So, Singh Saab The Great adds Sunny Deol's name to the list. As expected, it is loud and gets louder by the minute. And there are entire 150 of those, no less. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I must say the slight twist in the concept is interesting but they give up on it even before the audience begins to appreciate it. Other than that though, it is as run-of-the-mill and tedious as it gets. The action choreographer tries to shock every once in a while by going a little over the top. But, you end up being just slightly amused rather than awed with those gimmicks. 
Even with these interesting deviations in terms of writing, the emotions never engage. It has to be as much due to how exposed we are to this theme as it is to the writing as it is to the performances. Over-written dialogue delivered by Sunny Deol in a manner that we are so used to over decades. For the rest you have Prakash Raj whose performance could've had an impact had it not been the, goodness knows how many, 15th time we've seen it.
What I found absolutely ridiculous was the sudden introduction of a communal tone. It comes out of the blue and way too late in the scheme of things. It thus ends up sounding like an afterthought. Not that way too much thought has been put in the plot, anyway.
And yet, isn't this what we knew to expect? The Deols - they seem to have a world of their own. That world has either the three of them in lead roles, else in cameos with one of them as a lead. This world has an audience of its own that enjoys cars lifted and turned around single-handedly by the famous two-and-a-half-kilo hand. This world is impervious to the likes and dislikes of outsiders. I watch because, well I like giving every movie a chance. Or maybe masochism just comes easily to me. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
