
Superhero vs. End-of-the-worlder - there are only so many ways this theme can go. Krrish 3 goes exactly that way - predictable down to the last scene and detail. Even so, well-written superhero films have something about the hero's dilemma or the situations he has to go through, to keep you interested. Krrish 3 shows potential with such situations a couple of times, but then they fizzle away. Krrish 3 just fizzles away.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Actually, the film is somewhat of a surprise from what you expect. I didn't expect there to be much of a story - expectations set by Krrish. But, even though they aren't remotely logical, a few things that are cute. Just that the thought was put into it when it wasn't expected - reaches out to you. For example, the manner in which our end-of-the-worlder, Kaal (Viveik Oberoi) gets his army together. Also, as laughable as Rohit's (Hrithik Roshan) pet project is, the concept itself is used adorably. 
On the other hand, I expected the VFX to keep me glued but they turn out to be shoddy for way too many parts. The special effects in the first 20 minutes or so shocked me. The inside of an aircraft's cockpit reminded me of how drives in a car were shot in the 50s! When Krrish (Hrithik Roshan) flies, it's just that the fastening cord that holds Hrithik Roshan has been edited out, else you can pretty much tell it's there. However, there are a few special effects that work too. 
Despite a thousand and one inspirations Krrish 3's VFX are rather disappointing. There is only so much you can blame on the low budget. At the very least, they shouldn't have attempted the effects and action sequences that they couldn't do well. Mediocrity in this area from an action film of this stature is not acceptable.
One of the other main things any action film relies on heavily is dialogue. And Krrish 3 has absolutely nothing going for itself in this department. "Fusion is the Future," really? It's almost as if it were written for reviewers to fill a paragraph with. Then, you have Krrish sending across public service announcements and blatantly advertising way too many brands. Neither of them - be it noble or money-minded - have a place in a film. They instantly, bring you back to the real world, which is very jerky considering the fantasy world Krrish lives in. 
For a few minutes, I was impressed, even if with a fair share of amusement, with the Krishna vs. Kaal metaphor going on in the film. And then of course, they had to spoon-feed it and make you wonder if the villain was named Kaal just so that, a supposedly cool line could be said by Kaal. Oh well.
That besides a child gets an absolutely unacceptable line. 
Interestingly enough, I didn't mind the performances at all. It could have to do with my mental preparation for an onslaught of hamming. But the 2.5 hours passed by with very few cringes, at least owing to the acting. Hrithik Roshan's transition from Rohit (dad) to Krishna (son) to Krrish (superhero) makes you admire him. It must not be easy to modulate your voice and keep it consistent the way he does for Rohit. Now, if only he didn't flare his nostrils as a sign of anger and/or disappointment and/or fear. 
Priyanka Chopra has very little to do, but there is this one glimpse and it stays for half a fraction of a second, which makes you wish she had been given more to do in that zone. Viveik Oberoi does do a decent job of instilling fear as the mean villain - for about two minutes. After that you just lament for what the character could have been. I guess you cannot fault the actor for that. But that gives him precious little to do. Kangna Ranaut's character, Kaaya too suffers from the same shortcoming in the writing department. Else, she could've been a really interesting character and Kangna was doing a fair job with it too.
But then, if the makers had spent more time on the characters, they wouldn't have had the time to find abrupt places for songs to be inserted now, would they? That besides, the music, lyrics and worst of all the choreography (except for a few steps by Hrithik Roshan) take you straight back to the 90s. Now, where is the need for that?
So, given what I liked in the film, would I watch it again? Not a chance! Do I regret watching it once? I don't regret watching any film once (well, almost - exceptions here and here).  Would I mind it if my kids watched it? Not really, only once, though. 
If you are a Hrithik Roshan fan - Happy Diwali! For the rest of us, don't watch it and have a Happy Diwali any way! :D

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
