
A host of good-for-nothings trying to make quick money to pay off the yelling landlady breathing down their necks. Heard that one before? They strike the brilliant idea of objectifying the fairer sex and start with turning into peeping Toms. But, just any woman won’t do. Not only does this particular lady have to have the perfect vital statistics, but she should also be a rich heir. Please note, there is no possibility of her being rich on her own merit. Mind you, though one woman will do for all of them put together. And of course the exaggeration plays equally on the male stereotype too. Poor things are shown to be even more insensitive than the average man, imagine that! Oh never mind, let’s move on before I get all feminist on you.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Oh come on, you cannot be blaming me for giving the story away; you have seen this bit before – many times. And anyway, giving credit where it is due, there is a little more to the movie than just the foursome wooing this lady. So what, if that little more might as well have made a different movie altogether. Now, why does the name Priyadarshan come to mind?
Also creditworthy is how some of the funny dialogues are slickly put in between regular lines. So, only the very attentive will get the jokes. But that’s about where the smartness ends. It pretty much doesn’t matter which character says those lines because the characters don’t have any individualistic characteristics. And it pretty much doesn’t matter where in the story those dialogues are scripted, because they could equally randomly be interspersed anywhere in the rest of the story (ies).
I think it is time I stop complaining about how wasted Om Puri, Sherman Joshi, and Rajpal Yadav in their loud characters or how wooden Kunal Khemu, Tusshar Kapoor, and Tanushree Dutta are in their loud characters or how loud Asrani and Tiku Talsania are in their loud characters. In future I will try and point out things about these actors only if they are any different.
Music? Lyrics? Don’t remember any of it. So, let’s just say they were very forgettable.
So, except for the few funny lines and the teeny-weeny bit of curiosity aroused by the second story, there isn’t much going for this movie. But, then again, we weren’t expecting anything different from this crew, were we?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
