
What if Robin Hood's father didn't know him for the good things he did and judged him for looting others? Maybe it'd make an interesting story, if it dealt with just that. Unfortunately, Boss starts out with this simple what if and complicates things beyond comprehension. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


To make matters manifold worse, this Robin Hood, Satya (Akshay Kumar) spouts inane dialogue to look cool; laughs at his own poor jokes; literally sings his own praises (just in case you hadn't guessed from the his finger rings); and is generally way too full of himself. The only saving grace is that he doesn't have a lead lady as a show piece. 
I guess, we could take offense that the makers of the film didn't even bother to have a role for a lead lady at all. But then if it were going to be as skimpily written as it was for Ankita (Aditi Rao Hydari), I guess it worked out best that there isn't a lead lady. Especially, given that Sonakshi Sinha's cameo had more recall value than Aditi's entire role. And I wouldn't blame Aditi's performance for it. 
The writing department just doesn't care enough to be taken seriously. With the numerous complications added to fill in the story, the writing completely loses track from where it starts. For example, Satya and Shiv's maternal uncle (Johny Lever) suddenly behaves like a stranger in a scene in the second half of the film. With such glaring mistakes, attention to detail is just way too much to ask for.
Only aim here seems to be to give Akshay Kumar screen time. Interestingly enough, Akshay Kumar shows on screen 30 minutes into the film. I wonder what the reasons might have been. But, once he comes, he does his typical hamming and stays.
Till then and for little snippets after Shiv Pandit does try his best to make an impact. But, it is Ronit Roy who stays in memory. He does have the fierceness that a villain pitted against a boisterous Satya/Akshay Kumar needs. Yet, his role is too ill-defined and unidimensional for it to instill fear. 
Sure, there are a couple of scenes which make you laugh out loud - more because it is silly beyond words than because it is witty. Also, the first one or two action sequences for Ronit Roy are brash enough to make you notice. Otherwise though, there are out-of-place film references, worse placed songs and over-the-top dialogues in the name of entertainment. 
I really wonder how one doesn't get bored doing the same kinds of role one after the other. Maybe they are different roles but are just performed in the same old way. Or maybe the roles aren't defined enough to be different or similar. Goodness knows. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
