
War films - whether they are between countries or gangs - invariably end up touching on the futility of war.  War - Chhod Na Yaar wears it as a badge of honor. Even though, the route is different because they use satire and comedy, the theme is rubbed in way too hard. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


True, the solution to something like the India-Pakistan war can be as simple as 'stop fighting'. If only, it were that simple though, right? Given that War Chhod Na Yaar is satire and doesn't claim to take anything seriously, it might be a tad unfair to hold its simple solutions against it. Even so, the film misses basic coherence.
Behind its satirical coat, War Chhod Na Yaar can get away with the implausibility of the plot. But then, the characters, situations, and dialogue were supposed to make you laugh or at least smirk, right? For example, the initial setup of an imminent war at the border, where our protagonists are stationed, doesn't move beyond until the film is well into the second half. 
To keep the situations comic you have typical potshots at Pakistanis. I would like to think that even for those who find it funny, the jokes would get old within five minutes of the film. Other than that there is toilet humor and other inane one-liners. And generic references to facebook and chat do not a cool movie make. Maybe, there is an odd line here or there that could make you laugh; other than that you are just waiting for something to happen. 
Sharman Joshi, Javed Jaffrey, and Sanjai Mishra do bring some energy to the film. However again, their characters get repetitive and thus predictable pretty soon. Soha Ali Khan is required to feel shy, flirt with her eyes and look determined every once in a while. She does that all right. 
Then you have your regular dose of songs that have no business being in the film. I guess we should just be thankful that there aren't any choreographed and/or item numbers. 
I am all for films that speak about the power of the common man. But, War Chhodo Na Yaar is more dissuading than empowering. It is highly unlikely that the makers didn't want to inspire the audience and make them feel like they can play a role. In that case, you can only think of it as an attempt that failed. Not to mention that an entire section of the population has been totally ignored. The section that does believe that the war should be fought. Maybe, that would be another film. Hopefully not. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
