
I guess every star worth his salt should have a typical potboiler to his name - one which makes no sense plot-wise, but insists on claiming that it has one; one which likes to believe that it entertains with toilet and sex humor; one which has a lame song every 15-20 minutes. Besharam is that film for Ranbir Kapoor.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The worst bit is that it doesn't do this typical stuff with conviction. Everything from the villain's tyranny to the hero's unabashed personality via the lead lady's pretentiousness seems very well calculated and squeezed in to fit a formula.
What's more, this must be first of Ranbir Kapoor's films where you just cannot forget that it is him on screen. It doesn't help that his parents feature in the film as a couple; even though the three of them together Ranbir Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor and Neetu Singh do their best to infuse energy into a spark-less script. It is their comic timing that brings the few laughs that the dialogue allow. That besides, they have pretty much made fools of themselves in a couple of scenes. Pallavi Sharda's presence doesn't bring in any sparkle either. Javed Jaffrey only adds his well-known poor puns. 
Then again, maybe the blame should be reserved for the writing department. I sat there feeling pretty much insulted that the makers thought this would go down as story/characters/dialogue for us, as an audience. It's not only the predictability of how the different worlds of Mr. Besharam's personality come together or the lack of a peak point. It is as much the feeling that minimum effort was put into thinking about these attributes. Even the action sequences and songs are rather generic.
Sure, there is an attempt at being fresh by including bold and crass dialogue. You also have your typical film references strewn across - from Sholay to DDLJ to of course, Dabangg. But, can these lines work when the overall plot is as run-down as it was a couple of decades ago? A soft-cornered Robin Hood-like  hero; a woman who so easily falls for the guy after putting up oh-so-much resistance; a comic relief track. In fact, the mix is worsened by an uninterested villain. 
Maybe people who can watch Ranbir Kapoor do anything will have a good laugh with him in this one. But, are a star's fans doing justice to his talent by liking films that they wouldn't want the star associated with, in general?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
