
Parental pressure, business-politics-underworld nexus, child sex abuse and of course, love and revenge are the many themes John Day wants to talk about. It turns out that none of them is expressed with any conviction. Not that I am asking for long lectures or powerful drama, just an engaging tale would do. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


John Day, like the trailers promise, starts off with very fine suspense. Three-four threads run parallel and keep you guessing. The connection is elusive, yet not so out of reach that you lose interest. It all blends in together well too. But, along the way, the various themes John Day tries to reach out to become one too many for its own good.
Also, it takes itself way too seriously. Sure, any humor would feel completely out-of-place, the grim texture of the film makes it out to be much more important than it really is. The story doesn't really warrant a film over two hours. 
Not like it's a surprise, it is Naseeruddin Shah's performance that keeps the audience going. Yet, with a character that has barely any shades there is only so much he can do. Fortunately, he does get able support from Randeep Hooda who broods all too well. The downer, of course, is we've seen Naseeruddin Shah do so much better and Randeep Hooda do the nasty bit already. I actually liked Vipin sharma's performance too. Elena Kazan though stuck out like a sore thumb.
In fact, the entire romantic track between her character and Randeep's lengthened the film way more than their chemistry warranted. On the other hand, the give and take between Naseeruddin Shah and Randeep Hooda too is hazy. The dots don't connect. If you are interested enough to, that is.
There are a few pretty gory scenes which seem like they are exist more to shock than to add inherent value. Similarly, the themes of child sex abuse and parental pressure seem to be forced in rather than blending in. 
It is a boon then, that there are no song and dance routines added to the mix. But, the background score did seem a little confused between horror and thriller. Besides the decent performances the cinematography and a few cynically witty lines are your meager takeaways from John Day.
The need to be thrilled shall have to wait for the next one that claims to be a thriller. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
