
After a certain stage in a relationship, most likely, there is comfort or stagnancy. In either case, you need an extra spark, something to look forward to. The apprehension; the spring in the step; the glint in the eye that a new relationship brings - that's what The Lunchbox is about. And more. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Like any other relationship, Ila-Fernandes relationship is as much about the two individuals as it is about the relationship itself. Sure, the chemistry builds up beautifully, without one setting an eye on the other. But, their personal insecurities, frustrations is what makes The Lunchbox stand apart from most other films.
Moreover, the whole package is breathtakingly simple. The one-line plot, the characters, the ambiance, the situations, the humor would make even the most city-bred in the audience believe that a middle-class world like this exists, as much as it ever did, even today. 
The one-liner "what if" - what if the well-known lunchbox system went wrong one day and put two lonely souls in touch with each other? How fascinating an idea! Of the thousands of possibilities, the one writer/director Ritesh Batra picks is as charmingly old-school as it gets. 
The characters he picks to put together are mere faces in the crowd of 20 million. Ordinary, uninteresting - most likely, you and me. The side characters, including the neighbor oldie (Bharti Achrekar) you don't see, are given quirks that are thoroughly enjoyable, even if not real. 
You don't root for any of the characters, you just play along and are willing to go wherever the story takes you. There is no arc. There is no significant peak in the story. The simple progress of conversations between Ila and Fernandez is enough to keep you going. Each one is special; just like each conversation of a budding relationship is dear. 
Yet, none of it, not a thing would've been acceptable if it weren't for Irrfan Khan and Nimrat Kaur. Let alone the slightest show of spark or disappointment in their eyes, the variation in the tone for their voice-overs is enough to inspire awe. Nawazuddin Siddiqui is a charmer as always. 
The most obvious character in the film is one I am biased towards - Mumbai. Any film that reminds me of the sights, the smells, the energy of that city has won me over in the first scene. In complete contrast to this buzzing city is, ever so slow-paced, The Lunchbox. A beautiful contrast which could get to you if you are waiting for something to happen. 
So, depending on your make and what you seek in your films, the climax can be exhilarating or underwhelming. I was bang in between, even though I cannot see a more fitting end to the film. That's what will make or break the film for you. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
