
Why are remakes made, again? I'd think it's because the makers felt there was some great value addition they thought they could make which the original badly needed. Other than the fact, of course, that they didn't have anything original to make. But, I refuse to believe that the makers of this remake of Zanjeer didn't know they were taking away from an already not-so-great film. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Are they so smug to not realise that a two-expression Ram Charan taking the place of Amitabh Bachchan is many huge steps behind to start of with? Are they so blind to not see the disservice to films from the 70s by having a over-bearingly peppy, supposedly dumb Mala (Priyanka Chopra) replace a simple and sensitive Mala (Jaya Bachchan)? 
The original had this nice combination of angst and sensitivity between Vijay and Mala. It wasn't explored too well there too, but here it is completely ignored. This takes away a huge chunk of the meat that the plot had. 
I guess the only positive contribution by this Zanjeer is that the woman gets invited to the birthday party! You see, Mala was left out of Sher Khan's birthday party in 1973. Come 2013, she gets to look pretty in white and shake a leg too!
Priyanka Chopra, like I mentioned earlier, plays a very perky Mala. We can't really fault her if the script used her like comic relief. That besides, Ram Charan tries too hard to look intense and Sanjay Dutt looks like he was forced to play Sher Khan. There is a slur in his movements in the fight scenes and in his speech when he speaks. 
A couple of other things make things even worse - the dialogue and the music. You don't know what is worse - the iconic original lines that are retained or the new lame lines. A few more moments of disbelief - how could they not know that 'jab tak baithne ki ijaazat...' by anyone but Amitabh Bachchan or 'Sher Khan beimaani ka kaam bhi...' by anyone but Pran is epic fail? 
The songs are more or less annoying. My take on item number is no secret. Not only are they aesthetically displeasing and condescending to me as an audience, but the manner in which they break the flow of the story is the most irritating bit of them all. Here you have two songs that can fit that bill. 
Zanjeer also has a ridiculous background score. At first when, 'raghupati raghav...' played during a fight sequence, I wondered if the projectionist goofed up and turned on Satyagraha's soundtrack. Unfortunately, not. And the background track repeated almost every time Vijay has a fight sequence. Oh well...
I understand that even if you had nothing better to do, you'd be better off watching the Zanjeer from 1973, this one cannot be completely written off - maybe just because I have seen worse, and await much worse. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
