
Is marriage dying? No, not yours or a marriage around you. Marriage - as a concept, is it dying? That's the question Shudh Desi Romance is trying to get a hold of. You'd think it is as interesting as the trailers and songs of the film promised. Alas, that doesn't work out. 15-20 minutes into the film and you know the plot is falling flat. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I've warmed up to the idea of confused / listless / loser lead characters since I started seeing poetry in their tragedy. So, I try to find that in Raghuram Sitaram (Sushant Singh Rajput). That made me want to love him. Also, Rajput plays the youngster with earnestness. His confusion though boyish, comes across as a very "man"-like thing to do. Yes, yes, stereotyping and all. But, I can imagine many women going "these men!" if they look at him from the "he can't express himself" angle. 
He does have his charm, yet it is very difficult to see why these vibrant, confidently aggressive women - two not one - have fallen for him. What's that they say about love, again? Let's say blind, it is. So, two blind women and a loser. Even if I were told that before watching the film, so strong is my faith in Jaideep Sahni that I'd still look forward to it. 
And he doesn't disappoint - well, at least not in the dialogue. The lines are earthy, snappy, and delivered well. In fact, they are the only things that keep the film going. And Rishi Kapoor, of course - thank goodness for him! After all, there's only so much that can keep you interested if events get repetitive. And that is where I had a hard time accepting that it is Jaideep Sahni's work. 
True, there is a pattern to every person's behavior, especially when it comes to their love life. But, the repetition here isn't interesting enough to sail you through 2+ hours. It's almost as if the makers realised it was getting boring when they have the characters break the fourth wall to explain their motives to us. For one, their characters weren't that deeply sketched for us to have too many questions about their motivation. And then, there are some things that are better left unsaid. Also, with the realistic treatment that the film gets from its art director, it is a rude intrusion. 
Not that B-town neighbours accepting a young couple in a live-in relationship is very real. But, then that you accept as a realism that the makers wish for or even foresee. It helps that Parineeti Chopra and Vaani Kapoor make Gayatri and Tara seem very comfortable with who they are. Except when it comes to being intimate with the guy they are in love with. 
I must admit here, that the awkard first kiss is charming in its own way. But, it is difficult to believe that the couple who is so comfortable when they sing are so out of sorts when they aren't singing about their love life. 
After comments on varying topics from US' involvement in wars world-wide to safety of women in India, all it boils down to is the lyrics of one of the songs - 'chanchal mann, ati random...' (Flitting mind/heart, very random) - Shudh Desi Romance - with all its zeal to be pertinent, comes across as rather random. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
