
Very few movies about relationships take the relationship seriously enough to give it some depth, spend time on its development. Even fewer submit to everyday interactions and language to make the relationship seem real. As a pleasant surprise, Chef does that. Unfortunately, it also gets too real and has all kinds of characters preach to a character who seems lost in life. It  is also slightly difficult to connect with a protagonist who is a tad too unsure of himself and sways with the wind, like a long blade of grass – while taking some very important decisions about his relationships and career. 

                        What would you do if a middle-aged friend of yours seems to be struggling with “coming of age”? Give him some insight, right? That could translate to preaching, which is what Chef ends up doing.
                    
Chef is an immersive experience in the first half, though. It might have to do with Kerala's serenity in the backdrop. But, the film also comes across as one which is sure about itself. It doesn't hurry. In fact, it is so unrushed that you wonder why other movies are always sprinting from one scene to another, one situation to another. And, it doesn't get uninteresting. The lilting pace only grows on you little by little. Until interval. 
Chef's second half sees the writers struggle to keep things engaging. In the process, they lose the world of charming comfort and ease that they created. It seems like they had a climax in mind and by hook or crook they wanted to get there. They had some ideas such as a road trip, a father-son tiff, and so on which they retrofitted towards this climax Along the way, they give up on the organic chemistry they created between ex-husband and ex-wife, and father and son. The male-bonding between two friends too seemed like a force-fit rather than a germane aspect of the script. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is a shame indeed that despite enjoying the first half as much as I did, I have mostly been complaining about the film so far. Chef does get some subtleties right. The healthy relationship a divorced couple shares explains the attraction that they must have felt towards each other – especially considering they have opposing characteristics. Hot-headed Roshan (Saif Ali Khan) and a calm and centered Radha (Padmapriya) make you believe that opposites attract. There are other nuances that aren't spelled out either – the genetic flow of “being full of oneself” from father to son to grandson; the marketing suave that the current generation seems to be born with; parents who humor their child's lies; the intimation that a handsome, middle-aged man can cause;  the intimidation that another handsome, middle-aged man can feel; even the “intellectual” dialogue doesn't seem haughty but feels natural within the flow of the film – these details aren't something you spot in Hindi films too frequently. I completely cherished it. While it lasted. 
These little pleasures could have been very easily taken away if it were not for a refreshingly composed cast. This is the Saif Ali Khan I thoroughly enjoy watching – not entirely romantic, not entirely brazen, just the right amount of any gray character. Interestingly enough, I found Padmapriya's  comfort with her body the most enchanting. She carries her own brand of attractiveness and she makes a whole range of emotions seem absolutely effortless in just one phone call. But that aside, her body positivity backs up her reassured presence and that makes her character stand out. 



Speaking of which, I found myself smiling every time one Mr. Milind Soman presented himself on the screen. It is not just how mind-blowingly good-looking he is. It is also how uncomfortable he makes Roshan feel, by doing nothing but being there. In this believable ensemble, unfortunately, Svar Kamble's (Armaan, Roshan's son) enthusiasm comes across as relatively unnatural. 
This grasp of characters is a fine example of interplay between performances and some solid characterisations. If only, the writers hadn't lost the grip later in the film. They have capable support in the music, camera and editing departments. Every time there was food on the screen, my mouth watered. That is the success of a film which calls itself Chef. 

                        A charming, fluid first half is sadly overridden by a episodic, preachy second one :/
                    
But, then the taste is watered down with glib sermons. Even if they are called out for being “gyaan”, that's what they remain – sermons. The only credit that can be given to the gyaan*-giving aspect of the film is that it is what would most likely happen in real life too, if a 40 year old is roaming around listless. 
Yet, Chef could make for a warm film to watch along with your kids. Not because it has life lessons or owing to the parent-child relationship. It is more to watch a reasonably well-made film and spend some fun time together. Yes, despite the average last hour. 
knowledge would be gyaan*'s literal meaning; however within the context of the film it is knowledge that sounds like it is from a quotable quote. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
