
You can tell the writers of Fukrey are in love with their characters and it is a joy to see the writers so invested in their characters. Except they get carried away. The introduction is so slow that even when fun quirkiness sets in, you have to literally been jerked out of drowsiness. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The character exposition is so tardy and lacklustre that you wonder how you are going to spend the next two hours. And while it is good to see writers who care so deeply about the audience's understanding of the characters, they don't go beyond the initial set-up. As the movie develops, you don't really discover anything new, let alone interesting about most of the characters. 
However, as the movie progresses a couple of characters get into their element and bring life into the film, Chucha (Varun Sharma) and Bholi Punjabi (Richa Chaddha). Their characters' quirks and the language they use add zing to the film. That Chucha uses his dreams to win lotteries combined with his outlandish sense of humor, gradually wake you up and you begin to expect a peak in the film's comedy.  Bholi's brash lady-goon reminds you of Neha Dhupia's Munni gangster from Phas Gaya Re Obama and you are happy that you are enjoying her role better. She seems more at home with the language and the mannerisms.
Yet, only two characters and the actors who perform them can take a movie only so far. Also ultimately, the movie wants to become greater than what it has been so far and forces a message in. In addition, there is this fact that all the main characters are pretty much losers who you don't feel much for or identify with. 
Sure, the two characters take away a lot of the credit, but the other actors do a great job too. Especially the women, Vishakha Singh and Priya Anand. I especially enjoyed scenes between Priya Anand and Pulkit Samrat where they communicate with their eyes. Hilarious and romantic moments at the same time. Also,though  Pankaj Tripathi's role seems too small to warrant an actor of his calibre, he of course, does well with what he has.
Yet, with all that's going well for Fukrey, at 2.5+ hours, there is a lot that isn't. There isn't enough for you to warrant a trip to the theaters. Finally, I'll always remember Fukrey as the film that started with a guy peeing and cracking some toilet joke. Even so, a film in which the director and writer tried. A DVD watch where you can skip the first half sounds more like it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
