
The 2010 Kick-Ass, directed by Matthew Vaughn, caught attention because of how audacious it was in the violence and profanity-laced comedy it had to offer. It has since gone on to acquire something of a cult status. (If I remember correctly, it had also made it to Quentin Tarantino’s ‘Favourite Movies of 2010’ list.) Though I wouldn’t call myself a fan of the first film by any stretch, the film had quite amused me with its brand of no-holds-barred comedy and violence. (Not to mention that I’m always enamoured by the superhero concept, even if the treatment is tongue-in-cheek.)





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The problem with the sequel, which has a new director in Jeff Wadlow – and which one can question the very existence of, apart from obvious financial reasons – is that it sorely lacks what set the first film apart. Audacity. The violence, comedy and outlandishness of the plot have been toned down to make it a bit more dramatic instead, with high school identity problems, paternal issues and the likes taking centre-stage instead. The film does have a few laughs to offer, of course, and with its runtime just a shade over a 100 minutes, it mercifully doesn’t test your patience too much, despite the odd cringe-worthy moments. 
Though the pace of the film is largely brisk, it really slows down when it pretends to look at the serious issues. You’re always waiting for everyone to come to terms with their identities already, so that they can get on with what makes the film fun – the ludicrous humour and action. 
Every character stays well over-the-idiomatic-top and that really is what makes the film a tolerable watch. Aaron Taylor-Johnson reprises Dave, and is still adorable. Chloë Grace Moretz pretty much steals the show as Hit Girl, with her action as well as spontaneous lines. Nicholas Cage, who played Hit Girl’s goofy father Big Daddy in the first film, is sorely missed. But to make up for his absence is the presence of one of my favourite movie stars of all time. I won’t reveal who, because I must confess, I had no idea he was in this film before I watched it. In case you don’t either, then I don’t want to ruin the surprise for you; because I nearly jumped out of my seat to cheer when he first appears in the film.
Apart from the appearance of said movie star, the best moment of Kick-Ass 2 for me, was a line that appears on Dave’s t-shirt late in the film – again, something I’d rather you discover for yourself. Though Kick- Ass 2 is nowhere close to the first film, if you enjoyed the Kick-Ass, there is a possibility that you’ll like this one as well. Otherwise you might find the film too profane, too violent or just too silly. Some, though, just call that ‘niche’. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Pradeep Menon. Pradeep is a filmmaker and a dreamer. He loves books, rain, winters, tea and his parents. Cinema, however, is the only truth he believes in. He breathes and bleeds film, mostly in hues of saffron, white, green and blue. You can watch his short films at www.youtube.com/cyberpradeep.
    
    
  
