
A lady tells off a don, "I am not a city, you can't own me." 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It bothered me with Once Upon A Time in Mumbaai and it bothers me again with Once Upon Ay Time In Mumbai Dobaara - how exactly does one own a city like Mumbai? One wants to own it - I can try to imagine the magnanimosity of his aspirations. But when one claims to own it and everyone around him goes on for almost  three hours about how he owns it, you begin to really wonder how that works out? How does one own a city like Mumbai, let alone twice? Once I got over it, I warmed up to Once Upon Ay Time Mumbai Dobaara's style and drama, just a teeny-weeny bit. Not enough for sure, but not a complete washout either. 
The thing about a move which relies so heavily on its "powerful" dialogue is, you might indeed find four or five dialogues that invoke some kind of an emotion out of you. Either in its romance or skepticism or sarcasm or in its attempt at being profound, there might be a few lines in Once Upon Ay Time in Mumbai Dobaara that you just might remember. Only that you have to sift through tons of such lines including those delivered with enthusiasm by even the smallest of character artists. Whether or not you like it, you have to appreciate the dialogue writer's conviction at make every single line powerful. 
In fact, many situations and characters seem like they were created to accommodate the dialogue. Fortunately, there are other situations and characters that exist to build the themes of love, hatred and loyalty. Of the three the theme of loyalty is worked upon the most and works the best. The romance is rather lame and the hatred is purely functional. 
Given the huge conflict between loyalty and love, and the route Once Upon Ay Time In Mumbai Dobaara chooses to resolve the conflict, the film could've had a lot more impact. Despite the predictability, there was a lot of human element that could've been explored.
But when style is a priority over content and stylish dialogue delivery over actual acting, the limitations are pre-defined. Even so, though the performances don't get you too involved with the characters, every once in a while, you do forget the actor who is playing it. 
You do loathe Shohaib for his audacity and for a bit forget it's Akshay Kumar on screen. This is actually a big deal considering the last few films that he has done. Imran Khan too manages to  invoke some kind of sympathy towards Aslam, even if momentarily. Sonakshi Sinha helps Jasmine hold her own against the man who owns Mumbai Dobaara and for what its worth, she does give Akshay Kumar a tough fight with her screen presence.
Unfortunately, the romance has zero chemistry. There is more chemistry between Akshay Kumar and Sonali Bendre and him and Sophie Choudry in the little time they are given than Sonakshi Sinha has with either of the men. Yet, the fault doesn't lie in the performances, the writing and the choice of situations to depict romance lack oomph, despite all the superfluous style. 
So, laden with heavy dialogue that is attempted at by one and all, with a heavy voice, Once Upon Ay Time In Mumbai Dobaara isn't as random as the first episode, yet it doesn't suck you in despite having the potential to do so. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
