
Each frame of the film is exquisite - each one grand enough for you to stare at and admire for a long time. For that reason alone, Bahubali 2 could make for a theater watch – especially if all you want to consume, is the scale. For the rest of us though, who want story, minimal coherence, etc, we have no business loitering around in the general area where this film is playing.

                        all the screen time is taken over by dramatic slo-mo entry and loud background music.
                    
The latter part of the audience, meanwhile can amuse themselves by playing, “Which profile picture defines Bahubali (Prabhas) better? The one of him dreamily sitting on a tree or the majestic one on a throne or the one with him fighting the enemy's army with a tree trunk.” In the first half, you could also ponder over questions like, “Why did Kattappa (Sathyaraj) not get killed by Bahubali in episode 1?” Yeah, he annoys that bad. 
However, the first half also takes a step towards showing women as strong characters. The action sequences don't sexualise Devsena (Anushka Shetty), but are rather matter-of-factly. Also,  both the women, Devsena and Sivagami (Ramya Krishnan) – right or wrong – hold their ground. In fact, it is ironical that a film that is mostly set in a time before Bahubali – The Beginning, the women are treated with a lot more respect than they were by the next generations. The eve-teasing bit is given a solid, brash treatment that it deserves too. However, as the film tries to patch its way to “The Beginning”, you wonder what ever happened to the valiant, warrior princess





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In all other ways though, the film continues what it starts in the first installment. Lots of action, so much so that by the end, the clinking of swords seems like background score. Some of it is brutal, even if done artistically or even lyrically. Unfortunately, it gently slides into amusing and then ludicrous. Look at any tree or animal around you and push your wilde imagination to use it as a weapon of mass destruction! The romance continues too, where clouds double as horses and flowers, soldiers turn into dancers and so on. 
That is all you expected from this film and that is what you get in abudnance. The actors join in, in the continuity with Ramya Krishnan as “She who doesn't blink” and Prabhas who is equally determined and passionate whether he is a noble warrior or a make-shift engineer. The expressions don't change. Rana Daggubati and Sathyaraj need add no new dimension to their character either. The only refereshing change is that of Anushka Shetty. 



This is of course, because the screenplay demands little variation. Bahubali has a broad Mahabharat-esque story. But without any of its complexities. Because all the screen time is taken over by dramatic slo-mo entry and loud background music. There isn't much room to bring in nuances and unfortunately, neither did the makers feel the need. 
But that is for the handful in the audience like me. The visuals are mesmerizing. You get an inkling of the scale as the censor board certificate is followed by an endless list of partners. The patient wait for the film to actually begin is well worth it. The opening credit sequence itself made me wish I had opted for the IMAX tickets, even if it was double the price. As I saw the film progress, I didn't think I would have regretted the decision, though I didn't mind saving the ₹250 – because ultimately, the want for a solid story always dominates. 

                        the women are treated with a lot more respect than they were by the next generations.
                    
~ ~ ~
ps: I watched the version dubbed in Hindi.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
