
Sixteen tries to be cool and the effort shows. The labour that such an effort requires shows through every department of the film and not in a good way. It's a film where everyone is trying their best, but unfortunately their best is only mediocre. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sixteen gives itself an air of importance. A sense that it is making some very crucial points. But it does so in such a disconnected manner, as if trying to symbolise the disconnect that the characters have towards most things around them. This doesn't allow you to feel with or for them. Maybe some sixteen year olds will identify with some of the characters, but I am not sure anyone is going to find more than a half-way affection.
The first put-off is the dialogue delivery of all actors, except for maybe Zakir Hussain. The three lead ladies have a drawl that is annoying at first and then it becomes drab. It doesn't help that the dubbing is completely off. There is this a drunk scene with Wamiqa Gabbi who plays Tanisha where she shows some scope of doing something other than the regular drawl but that's too little to shake off the lazy way in which the lines are said.
The sad bit is that there is potential. Some of the story lines, especially that between Tanisha and the paying guest (Keith Sequeira), had enough material to make for a film by itself. But, the writers had the burden of keeping the other stories going and the editors do a shabbier job of sticking them together. Sequences are literally stuck together.
There are other times when the conversation has potential to get deep, introspective and interesting despite the awful dialogue delivery but it fizzles out. 
Anyway, I am not sure it'd have helped the broad stroke that every single sixteen year old is a weird shade of cool. I know a bunch of 15-16 year olds. They are confident, arrogant even. They don't value money as much as we did when we were that age. But, I doubt that they are as out there as the kids shown in Sixteen. 
Of course, I don't deny that teenagers do tend to have a casual attitude towards everything around them, but that can't be true of all them. Where are these represented in Sixteen? And if the film is not about those kids, then why have all characters that are pretty much the same, give or take. Then again, maybe all of real-life teenagers have another side that we as adults don't know about, just like the parents in this film.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
