
A father and his business partner egg the daughter to get a rich relative's son attracted to her. It sounds sleazier when they say it in Hindi. A mother of today's day and age, who has lived in Australia for years together doesn't once consider asking her son if he likes the girl she has chosen for him before giving her word to the girl's family. Even if such people exist in real life, what makes them interesting? Why would I want to watch them? I didn't like it back in the 90s, I can't stand it now.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even so, Ramaiya Vastavaiya does manage to bring a few smile, or laughs even, with Girish Kumar and his buffoonery. He brings about a childlike cuteness in his character, Ram. The kind of cutesy behaviour that is pretty annoying when an adult does it, but Girish Kumar carries it off quite a few times. And of course, there are other times when it doesn't work at all.
Unfortunately, those other times pretty much make for the entire film. Ramaiya Vastavaiya is almost continuously trying really hard to be funny. It goes over the top, loud and unbearable at most times. There are a few instances with the lead pairs sidekick's becoming butt of jokes. Or another character whose always on the phone and his side of the conversation is a funny remark on another parallel dialogue in the scene. All of this too though, works for a while and then it gets repetitive and thus stops being funny.
Given that the situation of all villains being against the hero's love for his lady, by itself is nothing very exciting, it is marginally interesting that Ramaiya Vastavaiya has more than one villain, all with supposedly powerful personalities. So, you feel the hero getting cornered from all sides. But, what's the point if the most intimidating one backs off, just like that. Not even a courtesy couple of lines are lectured on to them to transform their take. 
The problem with love stories like Ramaiya Vastavaiya is that they fail to convince you of the undying love that the lead pair feels for each other. It is more like you are asked to believe they are so much in love rather than you feeling it. So, who are you going to root for? Certainly not for the woman who can't watch out for herself even when her life is at stake. Shruti Haasan as damsel-in-distress works only as much as any stereotypical damsel-in-distress would work.
It's disheartening to see a film that mimics films made in the 90s. Especially, when you feel the ones in the 90s shouldn't have been made in the first place!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
