
A bomb blasts, you  are disturbed. You want to do something about it but feel helpless and lost. We rant about it, we complain about the administration. Bloggers blog about it. And filmmakers, well, at least some of them make films to present their point of view. D-Day ultimately, comes across as a filmmakers rant. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Writer-director Nikhil Advani sets up his characters in a rather dull manner. You know their sad stories, but you don't really care for them, till interval point. At break time, the twist suddenly makes you wonder what will happen to these characters. Thereafter though, instead of piquing the build-up, the narrative flattens. 
The pace of the action film slackens into moments of reflections by the characters. This is a shame because the turmoil of the male lead characters is played out really well. Thematically, this starts off with wonderful editing between a R&AW mission and a song at a wedding. But, when such treatment is juxtaposed with the film's larger theme, the pace becomes very uneven. 
Uneven writing doesn't help the cause. Loyalties change; enemies find out each others' moves and companions; the incredible happens, just out of nowhere. Towards the end, D-Day comes across more as a fantasy of what ought to happen in the real world than trying to keep it real. 
Interestingly, the climax seems to be talking simultaneously to our administration of what they ought to do and to the terrorists warning them against what we could be capable of. And what about that is not going to go down well with the audience?
A very capable Irrfan Khan and a flat-but-effective performance by Arjun Rampal are D-Day's high points. Rishi Kapoor does whatever he's asked to do with ease. Unfortunately, his character isn't menacing enough to give him room to instill fear. Huma Qureshi barely makes her presence felt. You really wonder if there is a reason other than equal representation in a spy team, for her to be included. Shruti Haasan, on the other hand, has a better, more meaningful role. Interestingly, her performance seems effective when she has shorter lines. Beyond a line or two and her accent begins to falter, which makes it very distracting.
The number of songs, even while they play in the background are too many and slow down the proceedings considerably. The film lingers too much for an action film. Post-interval, the plot goes haywire and the editing loses grip except for a few sequences. Even in those wonderful sequences, it stretches a bit longer than optimum - enough to make you impatient.
D-Day wants to be a stylish take on the psyche of the martyrs of this country while also trying to make a larger point about how terrorism ought to be handled. And, it also wants to be a thriller. Too much on one plate.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
