
It is refreshing to hear a counterpoint about a well-know porn actress. Well, it is refreshing when they are not made fun of, let alone be spoken of with respect. It is refreshing when the protagonist has a mentor whose influence stays through the film without necessarily putting him on a pedestal. However, these small victories are countered by overdrawn scenes, overwritten dialogue, drama and the was is lost with the sermon.

                        Noor describes herself with a voiceover for nearly 20 minutes, if not more.
                    
It is not that Noor starts out with a bang. Noor describes herself with a voiceover for nearly 20 minutes, if not more. She underlines the fact that she is young by using words like hashtag and followers. Sure, she is charmingly self-deprecating but it goes on for too long. 
Fortunately, the writing is slightly deeper than the usual. Her character seems to be facing her own first world problems – she even referecnes Dear Zindagi - and she is suddenly shown the mirror and along with it the face of what would be “real” problems of the world. This happens seamlessly and is interwoven into her character from the beginning.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


If only now the writers didn't lose steam and focus in the second half. Post-interval Noor – both the film and the character – sermonizes a bit much. The scenes which are supposed to be twists or impactful hold the drama a bit too long – you are given time to predict all eventualities. Thus, whatever comes next isn't the intended shock. 
Suddenly, the movie drops from being a fair watch to just about tolerable. If it doesn't go further down, it is solely because of the performances. Very little feels like it is an act. Sonakshi Sinha feels like a Noor, a smart journalist who wants to make a difference in the world but also has everyday human issues that a urban girl would have. The rest of the cast supports her along well too. 



It is difficult to say if I'd have enjoyed Noor better if it were more focused on one or two aspects of life that it picked to comment on. The lectures in the second half were so full of themselves that it is a task to be objective about the film and imagining Noor without them. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
