
thehraav is the one word that kept coming to mind all through watching Lootera. Literally translated it means 'pause' or even 'permanence'. But a usage that applies better is when the word is used for notes to be held while singing. To keep the voice from cracking or going flat while holding a note, a singer needs control of breath and voice. This is the control you see in Lootera. And the moment you see yourself using a word applied to music, while watching a film, you know you are not watching just a film, it is poetry in motion. There are a few points which put you off what's going on but the beauty of the climax sets everything right.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I haven't seen a climax as mesmerising as Lootera's. It's not a twist, it's not a revelation. In fact, it is predictable. It is just pure love. It is a shame then, that the makers felt the need to explain it in such detail with flashbacks and repetitions. And I am in love with the finish, despite this reservation.
I am getting ahead of myself though. The first thing that should be told to people who want to know whether or not they should watch Lootera is that the film takes its slow pace very seriously. It is almost as if the makers want to push the envelope on how long a pause can be held, a scene can go on without background music, and so on. 
It does help that the film is set in the 50s.  The times when, most likely, people enjoyed their pauses. To top it off, you have a palace, the majesty of which is waning with the abolishment of the zamindari system. Amidst this is the daughter of a zamindar (Pakhi) who is falling in love with a guy who's job it is to take advantage of the zamindar's situation (Varun). 
There is something not so old school about the way Varun's (Ranveer Singh) relationship with Pakhi (Sonakshi Sinha) develops. Sure, there are distances and awkward exchange of glances but there is also boldness about Pakhi's demeanour that you do not associate with the 50s. Yet, this does not take away from your experience. And of course, references to films and songs from that era take you charmingly back to the ambiance of the film. 
Also, along with the 'paused' treatment, the film has a heavy grainy texture to add to the feel of that era - something reserved for flashbacks in films. You do feel like you are watching a two-hour long flashback, like someone has transported you to those times to narrate a story to you, that can be best enjoyed only if it is told only in that one tone. The camera complements this tone and moves like it is in love with its object. Be it Sonakshi or a street in Dalhousie or a barren tree. 
The performances then are like the last cog that need to fit in well, to make this clock work. While one can say that both Ranveer Singh and Sonakshi Sinha got by with just one or two expressions, it would be unfair to them both. With the limited range that the roles offer, you don't know what to make of their performances. And when you don't know if an actor acted well or not, it is safe to say they did a darn good job. After all, you are rooting for Varun even though he has wronged other people grossly. You don't think Pakhi is being stupid when she is falling in love, despite herself. You know her confidence, you know her insecurity. And her elegance shines through both. A couple scenes between them will stay with me for a long time. 
The dialogue is kept simple. No way does it want to interfere with the silences, neither do you want it to. There is a little bit of fun thrown in every once in a while but it always keeps with the spirit of the film. 
There are lapses in the way the story plays out and they are rather looming ones or rely heavily on coincidence. And yet, if you are in for a sweet-paced travel back to 60 years ago, you let go of those. If you want action and entertainment (in the funny fun sense of the word), you don't want to watch Lootera at all. It has no story, as such. Nothing is going to 'happen'. It is a simple love story. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
