
The last thing you'd expect from a movie that had such an interesting trailer is that it wouldn't move ahead from there. You rejoice at 20 minutes when almost everything you knew about the story beforehand is covered and now there is two hours of fun to look forward to. And then nothing happens. If it weren't for some one-liners sprinkled through and a couple of decent performances, Ghanchakkar would've been a complete disappointment. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The movie lingers too much. It stays with situations a little too long after the peak of the situation; the dialogue repeats itself a little more after it has made its impact; at many points the lines come a second or two too late. By then you are done and dusted with your prediction of what is going to happen and pretty much always you hit bull's eye. Including, the final twist. For the content it has, Ghanchakkar is a good 30-45 minutes too long.
The only thing that keeps you going are a couple of the performances. Vidya Balan carries off her weight and ridiculous outfits with ease, as only she can. It is hilarious when her character, Neetu's sense of dressing is mocked at and she defends it with all pride. Even her weight is commented upon. However, her timing does go off in a couple of comic scenes and towards the end she is mostly shrieking. Her accent too inconsistent. Yet, every time she goes "Hain?" you just have to laugh. 
Namit Das as Idris has perfect timing for is one-liners. Unfortunately, he is handed some slapsticky sexual humor which doesn't quite work. Emraan Hashmi and Rajesh Sharma's roles don't need too much variation in their expressions and they stick to what is required of them. Also, the characters stay a good arm's distance away and you aren't really given a chance to get involved with the them.
It gets insufferable after a while. There is only so much of Rajesh Sharma and Namit Das' shrugged-shoulder-laughter that you can find funny. There is only so much of - "Where's the money?" "I don't remember. I've lost my memory." "Liar! I'll kill you/your wife." - that you can take. The basic premise, where three guys loot a bank, and the one who is supposed to keep the money safe has supposedly lost his memory, is really interesting. But nothing is done with that.
To spice it up they've added a few quirks like the goons using a local train compartment as rendezvous or a commuter carrying vegetables. But that's what they come across as - quirks that are forced in. They do not go with the flow of the film.  The Aamir-esque threatening caller on phone too doesn't add much fear. There was a possibility for a look into how the husband-wife relationship falls apart because of an illness and/or money, but that is dealt with rather superficially.
This purported comic thriller never thrills and is funny only intermittently. Even if you don't compare it to the expectations that the promo material sets up, you'd end up disappointed with Ghanchakkar. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
