
As a skeleton, Aurangzeb comes across as Don with justification behind the sudden appearance of an underworld personality's look-alike. A look-alike who is willing to take the Don's place as a Police spy. But add on the flesh of complications and turbulences that the said justification brings along with it and you have an engaging, intriguing thriller. If only, it was a little less flat in its narration. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It's been ages since I have seen a film that has worked so hard on a story; both in terms of the overall twists and turns and in bringing in the human factor to its relationships. That too on a theme as rundown as the underworld vs cops one. Of course, Aurangzeb is more than just that. It dwells on the themes of a father-son relationship from many angles. Interestingly, it doesn't dwell too much into the characters individually. 
Maybe that is why you don't get as involved as you could have been. Also later, the film does end up resorting to the most common thing that a gangster movie does to move the story ahead - kill someone. In that sense, one particular murder is more out of place and throws Aurangzeb into 'decent watch' categaory instead of 'must watch'. 
Otherwise, till this particular event, the film in fact, surprises you with its unpredictability. The change of hearts, for once, seem plausible. Motivations of the main players are clear enough for them to behave the way they do. And of course, the performances make all the events seem more believable than otherwise.
Arjun Kapoor plays twin brothers, Ajay and Vishal well. He expresses the angst and turmoil well, however goes a little flat when he has to express the characters' softer side. Fortunately, Aurangzeb doesn't need him to show the mellow shades of characters for too long. You have an actor in a double role who does a good job and yet you have someone with a much smaller role outshine him. If you had to guess the name, Rishi Kapoor will be one of the people on that list. Even so, after Agneepath, this performance shouldn't surprise us at all. 
Prithviraj Sukumar remains his cool solemn-face self throughout and is teased by his screen wife about it too. Amruta Singh induces a slap-worthy performance which is good because her character invokes despise. Even with his two-minute role, Anupam Kher's face stayed back with me. Yet, I am glad they didn't add bits of his back-story just for the sake of it.
Similarly, it is such a welcome relief to not see snazzy bits added in, just to make it 'commercially viable'. Whether in the name of item numbers or in terms of action sequences. Even if it means the narration feels drab as the movie progresses. 
Aurangzeb is one of those little surprises that makes you look forward to the director's next venture, even if you aren't completely satisfied with what was served this time. Just for the thought put in the story, just for making an otherwise done-to-death theme interesting, Aurangzeb is worth the watch. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
