
The most annoying bit about zombie films is that the story just doesn't move, only the zombies do. It starts with people becoming zombies, one inexplicable way or the other. It goes on with deadpan, gory zombies staggering around beautiful scenery. Living people fight dead people in an hour+ long chase sequence. And people beat the zombies in the last 15-20 minutes. That and you have people eating people. Go Goa Goneis more or less the same, except that it has a lot of fun along the way and is headed towards a definite purpose. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Go Goa Gonestarts off with the usual toilet and sexual humor you'd find in a film involving three bachelors living together, down to the oft-repeated Hardik joke. But, it has its unique style which keeps you interested. And of course, you are waiting for the zombies to appear. Meanwhile, beyond the commonplace humor are one-liners that make you  laugh out loud. With context, even the 'globalization' dialogue, that put me off in the trailers, works. The dialogue is witty and yet, not filmy. It is the kind of language friends would speak with each other. The delivery of course, is perfectly timed, else the lines would have fallen flat. 
Kunal Khemu, Vir Das and Anand Tiwari carry out the buffoonery well. Puja Gupta's Luna exists just so the film doesn't become too 'man'ly. But she does well nevertheless. Saif Ali Khan has his usual screen presence, but isn't required to do much really. 
In fact, this film is not about the characters at all. The main leads start out as the typical good, bad and in-between trio. The distinguishing lines soon merge into all three of them being afraid while keeping their humor intact. Yet, except for a couple of times, it doesn't seem out of place. 
I'd think zombie films would be categorized as horror films, but Go Goa Gonedoesn't fall in the horror category. Sure, it has more than its share of gore and intestine like things being pulled out of necks but it still doesn't qualify as horror. Also, the background score is quite different from the kind we associate with horror films or even thrillers. 
In fact, Go Goa Gonegoes beyond these genres to even comment about things like group dynamics in terms of who become a leader and how a group goes astray without a leader. You have an additional layer of a 'social message' stuck on to it. While, I'm not too much in favor of adding meaning to a film by merely slapping on a message at the end, I'm glad Go Goa Gonehad one. At least there is more to a zombie film than people walking around like zombies. Also, the manner in which the message unfolds makes it pallatable, except for the last revision of lessons and "moral of the story" dialogue between the characters. 
Similarly, there are a couple of instances in which the people behave dumber than the zombies. Clearly, the situations have been added just to bring in some variety in an otherwise flat plot. But, they are all done in good humor and hence pass by. 
What makes Go Goa Gonea film worth the watch is certainly the fine manner in which comedy and horror/thriller have been combined. Who would have thought a day would come when I'd say, I'm looking forward to the sequel of a zombie film!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
