
I have noticed, these days, when the decibel level of a film goes beyond a certain level, I tune off. There you go, that's my disclaimer. I tune off so well, that I have to resist myself from a quick nap. Despite this, Shootout at Wadala managed to give me a headache by the end of the film. Or maybe it was because of my attempt at controlling my sleep. Eitherway, Shootout at Wadala is your regular gangwar film where everyone wants to kill everyone else. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There is one slight difference in that it tries to talk about the ineptness of the system that creates gangsters out of good people. But the message is too little compared to what you have to sit through in terms of pure noise. Not that it is something very new, in any case.
The actors do infuse life into the story that runs on for too long. But, the problem with a film that is so intense in terms of how quickly all the characters get angry, doesn't require too much variety from the actors. But, within what is required of them, they do well. 
Not that there aren't light moments in the film, but they cater to the kind of people who find a good laugh in abusive language just because it is abusive. The rest of the dialogue is way to filmy with all the mythological, religious and philosophical references. The romantic track, though important to the film is given too much of a step-sisterly treatment.
In fact, it looks like more time and energy has been spent on 'item numbers' who appear abrupt despite the fact that they are immediately followed by a horny Manya Surve (John Abraham) at Vidya's (Kangna Ranaut) door. 
Even so, given my aversion to gore and action for the sake of it, if you do enjoy such fight sequences, you might find Shootout at Wadala worth a watch. Like Shootout at Lokhandwala, this one too has its share of creatively killing people. 
Ultimately, Shootout at Wadala seems to be the kind of film that will be enjoyed by people who like this mix of moderately gory action, toilet humor and aggressive romance. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
