
Could there be a better way to pay tribute to something, than making a contribution to it? Better yet, when the makers' passion for the medium shows in the work. So, then do we show our love for the director who went  out of his comfort zone? Or for the one who did what he always does best - engage us by adding quirk to the simplest of stories? Or for the two in between - he who tells the story of a compassionate father or her who makes a son shine despite his father? Or should we talk about the discontent at what was missing or overdone? 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Karan Johar steps out of his glamorous shoes which must have been quite difficult. To not resort to lip-sync song and out-of-place dance must have been an effort in itself - even though there was a perfect enough excuse for one, two characters (Rani Mukerji and Saqib Saleem) working on Bollywood gossip. In fact, in contrast to the other three films, the only form in which this short film refers to Bollywood is through songs from yesteryears and dialogue. To top it off, looks like he wasn't allowed to take a trip to snow-capped Europe, much to our relief. (Boy, must that have been a toughie for Karan Johar!) Yet, his is the most chic story in terms of ambiance as he gets to play around with the relatively upper class parts of Bombay. That's as glossy as it gets. 
Though Karan Johar's quarter of Bombay Talkies seems like the most personal of the short films, it was over-eager. His account of a homosexual man who meets a woman he hits it off with, felt like a story he was dying to tell. That he had this passion to desensitize the Indian audience to this taboo film is great. But, that it came on so hard - not so great. Unfortunately, once again, Johar's approach to the gay world brought out sniggers and worse, 'eeewwws' and 'yucks'.
Once done with the weakest of the films in terms of stories, we have Dibaker Banerjee's film about a struggler (Nawazzudin Siddiqui) who takes pride in all his struggles. Till he is shown his shortcomings by his own hallucination. This part of the movie was more about two sequences in the film rather than the film itself. One, with a surreal setting in which the lead character is forced to face reality. And the other is a lovely tribute to silent cinema. Of course, there are many other smaller things which you will discover and there are others which don't connect, but these bits stay with you.
Bombay Talkies love for cinema deepens with Zoya Akhtar's Naman, a child stifled by the ambitions of his father. Like many people I know in real life, Naman made lonely and ignored by his parents takes refuge with Bollywood. The God-like stature he assigns to his favorite star is the logical next step. Zoya's gently slaps us as a society, twice. Once with her comment on parents who not only force their ambitions on their children but also corner the kids into lying to them. Then, with us as a society which produces and goes on to popularize songs that shouldn't be heard or seen by kids under ten. It is amazing how we clap while our children dance to these numbers. Her soft and indirect touch to a controversial topic like transvestites too, is pretty brave.
And the best is saved for the last. You can trust Anurag Kashyap to combine two disparate topics with finesse - our fanaticism as fans of stars and our unquestioning regard for our parents wishes. He celebrates and taunts both these aspects at one go. Yet, this is the simplest story of them all. Even though it feels a tad too long, the pace and build-up to the climax is beautiful. Vineet Kumar Singh as Vijay looks like another of Kashyap's finds that we ought to watch out for.  His desperation and persistence alone makes this section worth the watch. And of course, you have more bonuses along the way. 
All this builds up to the promotional song which I hated the first time I saw it on YouTube. But, with the flow of the film it had a completely different feel to it. Also, the version I saw earlier didn't have the complete version, it left out the charming old times. Yet, it deserved better than the green-screen patch job it got for the last bit. And the signature tune assigned for the current generation of actors still didn't work. 
So, while Karan Johar's story on a man's struggle with his sexuality might be the most impressive in terms of how far he's come out of his box, and Dibaker Banerjee & Zoya Akhtar's stories warm you nicely as tributes to our love for cinema, Anurag Kashyap's bitter-sweet reference to our reverence for stars is easily the one I'd like to watch again. Now, it's difficult to put my favoritism for the director aside when asked to compare. But, then again, given the context, this once I'm allowed that. ;)

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
