
'dum hai boss' goes Seema (Tapsee Pannu) every time Sid (Ali Zafar) woos her with cheesiest of lines. This is just after Seema claims she needs something extra to be wooed. All you can say is 'dumb hai boss'.  After this happens a few times, you realise that that's what David Dhawan thinks of his audience. Dumb, of course, not 'dum'! 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Chashme Baddoor makes you wonder how low story ranks in this filmmakers' priorities. Situations pop out of nowhere. Even for a "mindless" script, a couple of scenes are outside reason - like a twist in the Joseph-Josephine track or people landing up in jail to arrive at a convoluted plot point. These make the film even more annoying. 
Well, the frustration begins from scene one with absolutely painful performances. From Siddharth's over-zealous gestures to Ali Zafar's pretentious dialogue delivery to Tapsee Pannu's cute-yet-flat portrayal of Seema as the film's center of attention - it is one assault on your ears after another. Then again Tapsee Pannu needs another role for an opinion to made about her talent. Divyendu Sharma makes the most out of the supposedly funny lines he is given with some decent timing. Anupam Kher and Bharti Achrekar get to make a fool out of themselves once again. I'd have liked to say that Rishi Kapoor and Lilette Dubey are the saving grace of the film but that would imply that the film has some grace, so let's that be.
I don't know if the performances or the dialogues are more frustrating. The general concept of 'comedy' or 'entertainment' is very lame, making it difficult to believe, how low the standard of humor is. And this is despite rock-bottom expectations. 
Shouldn't slapping, as a mechanism to make people laugh, have been out of fashion in the 50s? Scampering, in fast-forward was funny when Charlie Chaplin did it for the first few times. And pun stops being smart use of words at age 10. Even the silliest of silly comedies from the leave-your-brains-behind genre should have gone beyond these done-to-death tools of making its audience laugh. Oh yeah, and their first cousins, toilet and sexual humor. Needless to say, David Dhawan's Chashme Baddoor has the lowest possible form of gags in each of the above categories. Having the likes of Anupam Kher and Rishi Kapoor mouth them makes me want to cry. More so because they try to spoof  Sholay's mausiji sequence or enact a SMS forward take on Chak De! India's 'sattar minute'.
For the sake of completeness, I have to mention the original Chashme Buddoor. Chashme Baddoor chooses to completely ignore all that was good about Chashme Buddoor - the simplicity and the satire. Instead, it goes on to make what was bad, worse. For example, the climax is made even more implausible. 
Amidst this then, it is interesting that there was some attempt at being different in the way the songs were shot. They are loud and are far from melodious, as expected. But some smart editing and camerawork makes them stand out in this otherwise thoughtless execution. Other than that though, there isn't much they could do. After all, Chashme Buddoor had music from the pre-70s to pay tribute to, whereas yesteryears for current films is the 90s.
It is difficult to decide if my urge to cry was more because of the silly lines or because some part of the audience was enjoying it whole-heartedly. Some silliness is just so bad that it makes you laugh, Chashme Baddoor's brand of stupidity doesn't even fall in that category. 
"What else did you expect?" Is a question I have no answer to. What I was thinking while drifting away from the films abysmal comedy though, was this - last week's Himmatwala fell pretty much flat on its face. What will the David Dhawans and Sajid Khans of the world do when in a few years the audience starts wholeheartedly rejecting brainless entertainment?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
