
It is sad enough when you watch a feature length film and you don't see a story. Phillauri attempts two stories and neither has the strength of holding up by itself or to support the other.  It is more upsetting than having watched two films without a story. Sure, the special effects are reasonably better than what we are used to in an average Hindi film that involves special effects.  The story concept as brought out by the trailer is cute too. Alas, there is nothing more to go on. 

                        ...when the story doesn't move, social messages, satire, strong women, etc just don't seal the deal.
                    
The cuteness or the humor seen in the trailer is pretty much all there is in the film. The few minutes before and after the said scene are just an unhealthy hyper-extention of the moment. This can be said pretty much about the entire film. I don't think I would be exaggerating if a scene where a couple hugs runs for about 5 minutes – Disney fairytale like score running in the background. This is true of the songs too. While the music is appropriately folklore-ish, the songs feel too long too.
When you are only waiting for this scene to be done with, so that the next can come and be done with, you can barely be taken over by performances. All the cast does what it has to do – Suraj Sharma stays confused, Mehreen Pirzada disappointed, Diljit Dosanjh smitten. Anushka Sharma's Sashi is the only character that can afford some variation in expression and she makes the most of it. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Along similar lines, when the story doesn't move, social messages, satire, strong women, etc just don't seal the deal. A story has to grip with its content or its presentation for any of this to matter. As you watch scene after scene overstay their welcome, you ultimately realise that nothing interesting is really going to happen. By the time, the big reveal(s) come about, you have guessed them and even as you guess, you aren't really enamored by any of it. 
Movies like Phillauri make me wonder about talented actors, producers with a said vision, music, special effects – some bits underdone, some overdone and some like story – not done at all. And how not all departments put together can compensate for the one that is way off the mark.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
