
Films which start out with a lie and then build up on that lie with more lies explode in a typical fashion and thus are predictable in that sense. Mere Dad Ki Maruti too, falls in that category, and doesn't get too creative with the lies either. However, some witty one-liners and that it gets a couple more lead characters involved in its lies keeps the going slightly more engaging than otherwise. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


That too though, goes missing in the last quarter of the film. The co-conspirators suddenly vanish for a while and reappear. We are to assume they were busy hatching alternate plans. Watching Sameer (Saqib Saleem) dig his grave deeper all by himself gets a little weary. His motivations seem dramatic and convoluted. 
This is saved, to a great extent, by some very sharp dialogue writing. Sameer who is constantly put down by his father and sister gets back at them in his own way, if only under his breath. However, like his friend (Prabal Punjabi) points out, he is way too casual about the supposedly alarming situation he is in. Such is his contribution in keeping things light. 
Saqib Saleem, Prabal Punjabi and Rhea Chakraborty together keep the film young with their SMSese. I didn't find all of that too amusing, felt a bit over-done. But, then again maybe I'm too old to find this funny. The dialogue delivery is too fast, maybe in keeping with the fast-paced lives that the young and restless live.  The other one-liners though are witty and come and go quickly, keeping the audience on its toes to stay with the flow. 
The Punjabi bit is a tad too in-the face. So is Ram Kapoor as Sameer's dad. It doesn't help that we have no clue why Sameer is being put down so bad by him, and his sister for that matter. All you hear is this putting-down and suddenly you are supposed to believe that 'it's all for the family' after all. 
In this family affair then, why-o-why did a cheap dance, performed by a bride, find place? If it is to exaggerate of how ridiculously offending lyrics find their way to family events, it is in bad taste. Such things with a quick anti-dowry pointer just don't gel together. 
Even so, Mere Dad Ki Maruti is a decent watch while you are at it. It gives you a couple hearty laughs and you smile more often than not. Oh and be prepared for an extra dose of Maruti advertisement in the first half hour. Then again, you were already warned, weren't you?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
