
Most of this interval-free film, I was waiting for something filmy to happen. Anything. But, no coincidences make you roll your eyes, no one asks you to suspend your disbelief  for a good portion of the film. Shaurya (Rajkummar Rao) is stuck so bad and you know it is only going to get worse. It is just that kind of a film. It doesn't relent. It is an unreal situation in a very real setting. So, if this unlikely event did occur, Shaurya would behave more or less like he does. This works in bringing the chill. But, the eekiness comes from anticipating worse things to happen rather than worrying for Shaurya or even imagining yourself in his place.

                        The backdrop of Mumbai's tall buildings help in making Shaurya and you painfully aware of the smallness of our non-existence.
                    
When your insides physically react to something that is playing on screen, you'd think you come out of the film wowed. However, all I wanted was the Trapped feeling to be off off me, pronto. Sure, you feel relief when Shaurya finds even the littlest release from his tight situation. But, it was difficult to discern if it was for him that I felt relaxed or for myself. That's where the disconnect is.
Interestingly, nothing gory is shown explicitly. But the implications have enough of an impact. Maybe it is a cake walk for the regular audience of Fear Factor or some such. But, for the stranger sitting next to me and me, looking at each other was more entertaining than letting that cringe take over the body. Of course, Rajkummar Rao makes you believe every bit – whether it is his gullibility, stupidity or his ingenuity.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


However, the horror tone in the first half felt like a distraction because Trapped is a “survival and competency” story. Even if it isn't at par with others in the genre, the resemblances to 127 hours, The Martian, (Home Alone?) and even a nod to The Shawshank Redemption are unmissable. 
Fortunately, what we have seen in Vikramaditya Motwane films so far, is true of Trapped too. Despite the slow pace of the film where at most times it feels like, “nothing is happening”, there isn't a dull moment. While there is nothing lyrical about Trapped, a la Lootera, there is a pulsating aura through and through. The background score works beautifully in tandem with the sounds in the film. 
A movie with a stranded protagonist tends to get philosophical. The backdrop of Mumbai's tall buildings help in making Shaurya and you painfully aware of the smallness of our non-existence.  A situation like that does bring perspective, even if it is lost as the end credits roll. 



What would you do if you were stuck in a Mumbai building and no one knew of it? Maybe you wouldn't be as stupid as Shaurya. Maybe you would try the smarter things first, the ones that he thought of  later. But, the question is would you be any less desperate? Would you not try everything at your hand? To that extent – making you wonder what you would do – Trapped engages. But, other than that you are looking out to escape the disgust.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
