
It is touching. It is sweet. The romance is too good to be true. Yet at some level it works, because the chemistry works. But, where's the "hum" Mr.Devgan? I saw only the "U". Why is the Mrs. denied character development? Of course, the U can argue that the movie is from Ajay's point of view. But then why behave like you are in love with cheese and call it, U Me Aur Hum?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The story has a clear set-up, a conflict and a resolution. I like the pace at which the romance builds on the cruise ship as a tribute to Titanic. The conflict chosen however, is so specific that you wonder whether the resolution is applicable to all situations. Especially considering that Ajay Devgan, as a person, wants people to work on their relationships rather than let go.  Yet, it does manage to make you think "how much would I be willing to give up in my relationship?"
Again, the problem at hand is specific enough to warrant research. A cursory glance around the web raises a couple questions. To an extent, the movie is not about this specific issues, but is about the overall idea that love also means enjoying the blindness. But the issue is so much at the crux of the story that it can't be ignored.
And why this obsession with a boy child? "To each his own" is all very good, but do we really need that kind of propaganda in such an influential medium? The issue of female infanticide is so rampant in India that this one doesn't even need research.
Coming back to the romance, there is a lot of pretentious dialogue going back and forth, which is alright till Ashwani Dhir gets to sentences with "repeated words". He takes this scheme of sentence formation along with a joke to the other release this week Krazzy 4 too. So, we are repeating across movies too! Not to mentions that some of the key scenes lacked punch. But, there is this particular monologue which is getting tedious just when Ajay changes his tone completely and takes off. It touches the right chord. 
Yeah, the credit does go to Ajay Devgan for that. I have always felt that it's very difficult for a director to direct himself well. But when it comes to directing others, Ajay missed the mark. Almost everyone in the supporting cast is over-the-top. Of course, Kajol has done the best she can to get us involved with her situation despite the lack of depth writer, Ajay Devgan, etches out for her. Though she does get to her shrill self every once in a while. But I'm still miffed by the short hand she has been dealt.
More credit to Ajay, this time with regard to experimenting with the camera. And of course to Aseem Bajaj for executing the director's vision. Most of the film is shot with the subject of the camera in the background. And some or the other out-of-focus object in the foreground - be it a chair, a person or a showpiece lying on the table that the subject is sitting behind. I found this interesting because I always had some inkling as to the evironment the character in focus is in.
However, while Ajay and Kajol are stylish, elegant personalities, they are not the most beautiful looking people. Close-ups of their aging faces should be avoided, especially when they are playing characters 10 years younger than they are.
Munna Dhiman does a decent job with the lyrics. The witty words flow well with the music and thus you don't have to strain too hard to understand. The music however, is just about functional. 
Despite all its flaws, U Me Aur Hum touches a tender spot, makes a tear roll, and sets you thinking about what love really means to you.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
