
It's bad enough that life has its share of people who can't stop talking about themselves and how cool they are. Why would I want to watch these characters on screen? Especially when they are being superficial about being full of themselves. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I, Me Aur Main is too plain vanilla a story despite being different in that it is modern in its take on relationships, at least in a very broad stroke. It suffers from the usual complaint of not having a single character who you can root for. Even though there is Anushka (Chitrangda Singh) who is obviously in the right, you don't know enough about her to root for her. 
It doesn't help that Chitrangda Singh is getting worse at emoting with every film. Wide eyes and pointed lips make for a lovely face to look at, but they don't once convince you about anything they are saying. Especially, with a put-on accent that makes the entire act seem even more fake. 
Prachi Desai on the other hand is vibrant and you want to know her character, Gauri more. But, of course, you aren't let in except for the token scenes featuring her flamboyant and confident nature.  John Abraham plays his wooden self, except for a couple of scenes where he makes you really believe how oblivious he is to other people's existence, his character, Ishaan is. 
The situations themselves are hardly connected. They are a series of supposedly fun and not-so-fun events stringed together. Yet, there are a couple of scenes that are done well. I especially liked the awkward moment created for Anushka at Ishaan's sister's house. 
Thematically, the modern solution found by a couple who doesn't get along with each other but wants to be together for one reason or other is pretty mature, especially when found in a film that has not much mature about it otherwise. It is almost like the writer hit upon this idea he wanted to convey and worked backwards to form a story towards that end.  
Another aspect of today's life that I, Me Aur Main touches upon is the mandatory relationship that the 60+ generation finds itself in. This is a generation who doesn't see separation or divorce as an option. This is a generation that hasn't necessarily experienced love in the romantic sense of the word. I understand I, Me Aur Main is hardly about this facet of life, but since it broached the subject, I would have loved to see more of it.
Another interesting decision in terms of film-making was the one of having just the one lip-sync song. Considering Ishaan is a producer of singing stars, there was certainly room for more. Yet, the lack of songs is not sufficient either to make a good film now, is it?
With quite a few, small things going in the right direction for I, Me Aur Main, the film in its entirety still feels like too shallow a take at relationships. Quite in sync with its title protagonist, but not good enough a metaphor to take it through being even a half-decent watch. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
