
Zila Ghaziabad is a revenge drama that never should've been made. Just like Jayantabhai Ki Luv Story was a romance that never should've been made. Without an ounce of originality Zila Ghaziabad just seems like someone's fetish of watching two hours worth of action. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Amidst this free-for-all shootout, it was hilarious then to see a bone being picked because a few of the goons wore fake police uniforms while shooting. Huh? That was the only objection that the keepers of law and order had? Other than that, there are maybe four or atmost five one-liners that might bring smiles, two of which would be innuendos. 
Almost every frame reeks of drama. And drama almost always means either loud background score or slow motion that goes on for a little more than would be needed to make the drama effective. But hey, what can you say, for this is a world where slo-mo defines the character who is  in focus - If he's being recorded in slo-mo means he is important, means along with other characters in the film, we should fear him.
That is as deep as the writing goes. The three male leads could take each others' place or character and you wouldn't know. The women, calling them props would mean they had some significance in the film. Unless their role as being the one who is shot/kidnapped to get at another man, implies they have meaning in the life of the men or the film. 
With such a background then, do the men need to emote at all. And even if they try would it come across as anything but fake. Even so, you can see Paresh Rawal, Arshad Warsi and Ravi Kisen at least try. Sanjay Dutt and Vivek Oberoi on the other hand try to hard. The only interesting character then seems to be Fakeera (Sunil Grover) who plays Shakuni Mama in this supposed replay of Mahabharat. 
Just in case you miss the Mahabharat analogy you have a loud 'yada yada hi dharmasya' playing when Pritam Singh (Sajay Dutt) is in action. It's a different matter that any two sides waging war against each other with a cunning character could mean its trying to depict Mahabharat. So, to give that one a break you have Sanjay Dutt staring at a chess board and after much contemplation moving a pawn on the board as a first move! It doesn't end here, later you have two kings facing each other, two steps away from each other. 
Item numbers - two not one, cheesy one-liners, self-referencing jokes that's what makes up for the parts of  Zila Ghaziabad that aren't action. The action sequences itself are tedious almost in competition with the tiring drama. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
