
You wait for the thrills and shrills to begin. You wait and you wait and you wait. Finally, an hour and a half later, you don't get the shreiks alright - thank goodness for some mercies - but you get a very interesting premise to hook you in. Too late? May be. Too little? May be.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Just way too much time is spent on establishing a flaky love affair. You don't know why one has fallen in love with another or why stays in love either. Given the number of things to cause mistrust the love should've have fallen apart a couple of days into the relationship. 
Anyway, so, much-too-much love happens in South Africa, Goa, Mumbai and I'm sure a few other exotic locations. There is an air of mystery but as an experienced audience you have an inkling it's misleading. When, the real mystery is unveiled, you sit up. A world of possibilities opens up. A lot of test-of-character is bound to occur. These opportunities are utilized well too.
The question then is whether or not you can forgive the time spent in getting there. Here, you should be warned that even the events of the last half hour are a tad predictable. Not necessarily because you are a step ahead of the makers or have seen it before, but because you are given that extra thirty seconds to guess what will happen next. And you are more likely than not going to guess right. 
Aditi Rao Hydari's performance too makes things engaging. I just hope she gets a role soon, that can use the talent she seems to have. Randeep Hooda and Sara Loren carry typical plastic expressions I associate with this genre of horror/thrillers produced. Randeep a little less than Sara, because of Sara's drone-like dialogue delivery. 
The background music tries hard to create spook and fails.  The camera doesn't try to pull anything outside the box. The songs are like any other recent product from the Bhatt factory. Why are the makers not willing to let go of these clichés? Why is it so difficult to go beyond? Especially when they have willingly accepted that they are drawing from another film - La cara oculta, Spanish this time.
You cannot but help think - given a combination of a woman's instinct and her insecurity and a physical atmosphere of claustrophobia, Murder 3 ought to have arrested us. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
