
ABCD - Anybody Can Dance has Gopi (Ganesh Acharya) tease Vishnu (Prabhu Deva) "You want to make a Lagaan?", when Vishnu expresses that he'll train some good-for-nothings from a slum area compete in a TV dance show. Within context, it is funny. As the movie progresses you realize Remo D'Souza actually made Lagaan cum ChakDe! India cum 3 Idiots. Unfortunately, not in terms of quality of narrative, but only in terms of the themes touched upon. This when all he actually wanted for ABCD - Anybody Can Dance to do is express his love for dance. Also, if there are so many choreographers interested in making a film about dancing, why can't we have a full-blown musical?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Unfortunately, the dances here come across as aerobic and gymnastic routines, with a little yoga thrown in. Except for the extravaganza in the end, it's a true spectacle. Isn't dance a lot more about grace than being able to contort your body into twists and turns. For the joy of watching dance, I'd happily watch Madhuri Dixit in all her elegance or Sri Devi mimic Michael Jackson, even if it's just for half a minute.
Fortunately, on the other hand, I knew what to expect. So, if you are a fan of Prabhu Deva kind of dancing, you are in for a treat. Even if a lot of the sequences look like they might be inspired from something already done elsewhere. However, I would think to showcase actual talent in dancing, shouldn't there have been many more long shots? 
Sure, the final dance is spectacular, yet it is nowhere close to the one in F.A.L.T.U or that in Aaja Nachle. Also, F.A.L.T.U had much more of a story than ABCD - Anybody Can Dance. 
While the twists in the end added an element of surprise, they fail to tug your heart the way they could have. There is so much dance to be showcased that there is no room for the characters to build a connect with you. At least, not enough for you to go beyond the obvious good vs evil. Other than that too, there were a few things that I liked about ABCD's story - the tight slap between a father and his son, the fact that Vishny eventually has no love interests to distract us from the main story. But, the typical character turn-arounds in the end nullify the things going for ABCD.
However, ABCD if taken as a display of current-day dancing, is quite enjoyable. If only, it stuck to its title. When you say Anybody Can Dance, I would have wanted people like me, who have two left feet and are extremely conscious about it, to dance. But, it's ultimately, people who can dance, can dance.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
