
When Special Chabbis ends, you go through the entire film in your mind (you are helped by some repeated scenes in the end) and you realize that some of the scenes were in the film, only to put you off track from cracking the mystery. Why else would people who know each other talk like strangers when they are by themselves in the story?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Till then, you are holding on through Akshay Kumar, Anupam Kher and some of the others moving in slo-mo just because this is made by the guy who made A Wednesday - this HAS to lead to something good. In fact, the entire film feels like it is moving in slow motion, even when the camera is doing its job at regular speed. And yet you are giving it leeway. Good thing that smart one-liners delivered with some really good timing keep you interested in the film. 
That doesn't mean that the performances are top-notch. Except for Anupam Kher and Manoj Bajpayee, the rest are just plain. I cannot deny that it's a relief to see Akshay Kumar in a role where he isn't at his "comic" antics. 
Kajal Aggarwal is here only so that the fairer gender have some representation. Divya Dutt is given just the one line to repeat whenever it is predictably appropriate and the third woman is around just so she can  be told by her husband to wear a dupatta! The way the camera moves along the women's curves makes this film as respectful of women as any other film with an item number for X-factor. 
These are the things you don't expect after watching A Wednesday. Yes, with that one Neeraj Pandey had set up competition for himself with himself. 
I enjoyed the set-up. The film gives its audience the time to figure things out for themselves. Especially the 'who's who and doing what' bit isn't aided by people talking to each other as if they are meeting for the first time, or a voice-over trying to help us out. 
However, that becomes a bit of a drab later, as you feel you are continuously in an exposition mode. In fact, given the end, the entire film feels just like an introduction to a sequel, if not a series of films. 
It is sad then, to see out-of-place stylization and the lackluster conclusion. Also, when lead players in the film are not going to be nice people, you need a good amount of background about them, to be able to root for them. None of the lead characters, except Mr. Sharma (Anupam Kher) to a certain extent, get you invested in them. Nothing to keep you hooked through out. 
Sure, there is the sentiment of hurting the corrupt of our nation, of giving them what they deserve. But, it seemed half-baked and felt like it was a comment in the passing. Another side note is that no one in our country's administration and law enforcement believes in something as basic as checking credentials. Are we such a trusting nation?
Yet, if you can forgive the writer in Neeraj Pandey for going out of his way to fool you into believing something, there are a couple of twists that do make you smile because of the way the characters seem to be outsmarting each other. But, along with that you have a lame love story, a few quirks that exist just for the sake of being quirky, and con-jobbers who are written more to con you than each other. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
