
Mature love, love between a mother and a daughter, insecurity that a child might feel about her parents however old she might be - all this weaving in and out of memories as a theme. Listen...Amaya has to be one of the sweetest films I have seen in the last few years. Yes, there are moments of drama and there are very few moments that you wish were done better. But, for the most parts Listen...Amaya is a warm, touching film that keeps you engaged with its characters and how relatable they are.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Amaya, Amaya's mother, Leela and the friends they make through their cafe are all very urban characters which make them very homely for us, the multiplex audience. It poses a few questions. The questions themselves or the fact that they were asked has the potential to make even the most liberal of us consider their appropriateness. What can make an adult daughter of a modern mother, both women of today, uncomfortable?
The insight of some of the dialogue, small one liners stay with you when you walk out. The rest of the dialogue is the everyday kind you would hear in any of the city households and yet it is not mundane. 
The dialogue is made fresh by some wonderful performances by the lead characters. Deepti Naval and Swara Bhaskar are so comfortable and make you so comfortable about them that you forget you are watching a movie for a bit. You are completely involved in their interactions, so invested in their relationship for most parts of the film. Farouque Shaikh brings with him peace and stability as his character Jayant goes in and out of frames. You really begin to care for the aging Jayant, and his failing health. 
If only, the side characters could match up or even be half the potential of these three leads. Everytime, anyone other than these three is on the screen you are jolted into reality that it is only a film after all. 
Then there's a song that comes out of nowhere, ill-fit despite it's old-school-ness. Also, maybe for the build-up, the one necessary character transition came a little too quick. But, the manner in which the film ends makes up for the things that it misses. The matter of death of those you love and how different people deal with it differently, how time heals and how we associate loyalty and memories is brought about beautifully. 
A small gem like this makes the word 'genuine' spring for itself. A sweet story that would've meant nothing but for the performances. Performances which would have meant nothing if the story wasn't what it was. A film that makes your day not seem like a waste. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
