
Two disclaimers - I saw the Hindi version. I have never been a Kamal Haasan fan.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It has been ages since I've seen a Kamal Haasan film. The only reason I chose to watch the film was the ban - my way of showing support. I had decided to watch the film even if the Hindi version wasn't playing in a theater close to me. Even if I didn't understand a word. Fortunately, there was a Hindi version I could catch. Only for me to find out how much sillier the ban is than I originally thought it was. The only group of people it speaks against is the Taliban/Jihadis/Mujahiddins. So, did I get this right? Making this group of people out as villains hurts sentiments? Whose? Vishwaroop is a very average action flick at best and shouldn't be considered any more than that. 
I have never enjoyed Kamal Haasan's histrionics. He has always been a little over-the-top, caricaturish for my taste. The only thing I liked about Vishwaroop is Kamal Haasan's act, despite his effeminate act to induce laughter. Later in the film, he does make you believe about his reservations to the behavior of the people around him. 
Unfortunately, the people around him are annoying caricatures that are annoying, especially Omar, the one enacted  by Rahul Bose and oh yes, Nirupama, Vishwanath's wife played by Pooja Kumar. It didn't even look like it would be any better if here dubbing was better than that you see in English movies on TV. Only Jaideep Ahlawat seemed to be taking his role seriously. 
It doesn't help that the film is forced into becoming a comedy because of some lame behavior by the members of the Taliban. The action except for the first sequence - which is pretty cool, especially because of the repetition - is pretty ordinary. The rest of the action tries to horrify based on gore, which doesn't work at all. 
There was some potential of an engaging story when it delves into the lifestyle of the Jihadis' families. But soon you feel cheated because it is done only with the purpose getting you emotionally involved temporarily. Whatever interest is created fizzles out as the second half turns into the regular terrorism-based action flick. Let alone novel, it is pretty shoddily handled. 
Almost everything about Vishwaroop seems superficial. The dots aren't connected well. And yes,  you have been promised a Vishwaroop II.
And yet, I shall rephrase a Voltaire quote that is often repeated these days 

I might not like what you have to say and how you say it, but I shall support your right to say it.


    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
