
Hearts in the right places and good causes and a message in the film can take a film only so far. It still needs solid continuity, logical flow and a decent amount of believability. Because the message of “not accepting dowry” or “no showing a woman her place but having it for her as default” falls flat when adamant chauvinists change their beliefs before you could bat your eye. If only things were so easy, if only.

                        I assume the makers didn't want us to “keep our brains at home” for this one.
                    
I assume the makers didn't want us to “keep our brains at home” for this one. Some might claim that is an unfair assumption. In that case then, the message and attempt to make an impact is lip-service. 
The writing is way too weak for the film to have any impact at all. Scenes linger, and not in a good way. The film takes too long to say what it want to stay. While the main characters have grey streaks, the side characters are too stereotypical. While I didn't find a laugh in some supposedly funny situations - how is rape funny? -  it is difficult to appreciate the few laughs you get in the first half because of missing details. The lapse in logic is distracting. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For example, our hero doesn't know the formula for simple interest. But, can the character really be blamed? The writer-director doesn't seem to have their Math together. Who pays the dowries for the two daughters doesn't add up? No one seems to be bothered about the cost of the lavish wedding. These are the exact things that would bother a person who has actually gone through the process of organizing a wedding. 
Let's not even get into the mumbo-jumbo that Badrinath's sister-in-law gives as financial advice. It boggles the mind. All that time, energy and effort spent on making a film, and no one could approach the film's accountant to give them a decent two lines? Let alone the fact that she said it all so fast, she might as well have been saying, “MutualFundinvestmentsaresubjecttomarketrisks. PleasereadtheOfferDocumentcarefullybeforeinvesting.”



The other actors do play their parts alright, but the thick accents seem too put-on. It is difficult to believe that Varun Dhawan or Alia Bhatt have grown up with that background. Their performances are not bad at all. However, knowing what they are capable of, his performance came across as too generic and Alia in fact felt a little too shrill. 
Sure, the attempt at being progressive is obvious. But Badrinath Ki Dulhania seems to go about it rather lazily – taking the simplest “next steps” without a introspective and/or an exploratory eye at, what real life dowry cases or cases where a woman is held down, look like.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
