
If there is one thing we have learnt from Race it is that you trust no one. No one at all. And that doesn't change in Race 2. Characters make it to Abbas-Mustan's world only if they are conniving. Even the seemingly annoying and trying-to-play-dumb Cherry (Ameesha Patel) is sly in her own way, within her context. This world would have passed of as decent fiction, if only the contrived twists in the tale weren't unending. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Each character getting a chance to smirk, "I knew it. You thought you fooled me?" or "I had planted this ploy to put you off-track." gets tiring. If everyone knows everything, what are we watching the film for? To figure out who knows less? The one-upmanship can keep you intrigued only for so long. Can there be a limit to this when one villain claims everything owned by the other villain to be his, because a profit of 5 billion Euros is not good enough? Even in relative terms, that 5 billion is a 33% profit in 2 days! Fine, I shall control the Chartered Accountant in me. 
Hey, each of the lead characters look like a million bucks. Or make that a few billion. While I can rant and rage about how awfully distasteful the objectification of women is here, and it is loathsome to say the least, I have to admit that gender equality is maintained in the objectification. John Abraham and Saif Ali Khan are bare-chested long enough. And while the others have to just look like they have an alternate plan of double-crossing on their mind, John Abraham does manage to create that extra amount of scare, for he makes the character he plays, Armaan Malik, look like he'll stop at nothing. 
If only there was some oomph added in terms of good, memorable dialogue or if the characters were given a little more depth, it would have given something for people like me to chew on. Unpredictability which seems like it exists only to increase the run-time of the film, hasn't done its job well. 
The chase sequences, the fight (boxing) sequences, the scenic beauty of various exotic locations are all captured very well - right from the close-up of a scorpion to the scorpion shaped party deck to the aqueduct to the mountainous beauty of Europe. But, what's with the shoddy graphics work? From the bullet that leaves a sniper's gun to the airplane in the sky - all one botched up job after another. 
Unfortunately, there is no X-factor in the songs either. They just all look the same - not just to each other in the film, but across films of this genre which carry glitter, glamour and gleam with pride. No novelty whatsoever.
Beautiful looking people with twisted minds. Beautiful locations with crime and more crime. Yet, the potentially beautiful duality gets repetitive and tedious. And as if you hadn't guessed it already, the director duo have given themselves scope to fix it at the third go. Yes, I know not why, but I still hope. Maybe because I hope that some day Saif Ali Khan or Anil Kapoor will wake up from their stupor and will want to deliver quality products they are capable of producing.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
