
You can only sympathize with filmmakers who believe they are making a good, relevant film; who think they are being stylish by introducing the hero in slow-motion; who think their film is intelligent with chess-metaphors, explained in detail, no less. Only if these filmmakers sympathize with their audience who have seen it all, way too many times - in worse or better forms and in mediocre versions too. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, some of the specific problems of this particular crime drama which has the law and administration working hand-in-hand with the underworld are as follows -
A non-performer in lead role, Sachiin Joshi. Even the makers are so insecure about his acceptance as a hero that a song has to be written to establish that - 'poster fatega toh hero hi niklega' (if a poster is being torn, the one coming through has to be the hero). Not only is his dialogue delivery flat, his voice doesn't seem to have broken all that well. 
Even though, Prakash Raj tries to infuse some sort of interest with his performance, he ends up being repetitive (also from his earlier films). Prashant Narayanan has too small a role to make any sort of impact.  Aditya Pancholi doesn't create any ripples with his role either. Sudesh Berry come in as a pleasant surprise and is entertaining with his accent which gets old within five minutes. The women have skimpily written roles for them to be talked about at all. 
This one has two villains, which should have worked in favor of the film. They corner the protagonist pretty bad too. Yet, because of the caricatures that they are and the genre of the film, you know how they are going to end up. 
Even so, they had the potential to get us interested by the soup that the hero lands up in with them. If only, he didn't get out of it so easily. 
The setting includes dance bars and drugs rendering itself to a lot of cleavage, pole dances and lousy lyrics set to lousier music. 
And yet, none of this is a surprise. It was close to what any of us might have expected.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
