
I'd like to state upfront that I am clearly not a part of this film's target audience because I've never liked slapstick. But over the years, I have realised the core of why I don't like them. I don't find people insulting others, funny. And a lot of Judwaa 2's humor relies on exactly that. Insult the obese, insult the colored,  insult the women, insult those with speech defects – to name a few. I am sure the intention is not to insult but to bring laughs. But that insults bring laughs is a premise I have never understood. 

                        The film lays out it's own definition of logic. And then defies that too!
                    
Then there are other things like a child is made to objectify women. Now, sure there might be societies where this is encourage or kids pick this up and no one finds anything wrong with it. But, a child artist was made to do it, was taught to do it – isn't that irresponsible of us as adults? That we are expected to find it funny is even worse. Yes, it bothers me even if it is that one child. Because that child got called 'cute' for doing so. 
Of course, I am not supposed to think too hard. Therefore, there is no effort to have a story at all.  Other than the set-up and the climax, the rest of the film is is just about the misunderstandings due to mistaken identities between the twins – Prem and Raja (Varun Dhawan). These misunderstandings just seem to be on, on repeat mode and get tiring despite all the mustered patience. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


After all you are being asked to sit patiently and brainlessly through awful Shah Rukh Khan impersonations, disgustingly designed mens' toilet booths, and Varun Dhawan switching between the film's definition of good boy and bad boy. 
He performs well within the context of the film but the film itself has little respect for any kind of performance. It is one which makes Sachin Khedekar go over-the-top matching Upasna Singh syllable-to-syllable. And you know, they both have to be loud because they aren't together in a single shot, they have to reach the other through the scenes. 



Tapsee Pannu seems so uncomfortable as she tries to dance and trot around in clothes that she can't carry in front of the camera, that it feels like she is rushing through her dialogue out of nervousness - as if making up for her almost mute character in Pink. Jacqueline Fernandez plays pretty prop again. I can't remember a single film where she has done anything other than that. It is almost as if you can copy-paste her parts from one film into another and no one could tell the difference. 
Speaking of copy-paste, a few shots in the 'Ganpati' song, especially the chorus seemed like they were shot only once and just repeated to beat. This kind of cheating is like adding salt on the wound for a viewer who isn't enjoying the movie in the first place. For instance, there is little logic when a doctor tells new parents of twins that when one child cries or laughs, the other will have the same physical reaction. The film has this happen conveniently and not through the film (thank goodness for the flawed logic). However, that the parents interpret this as when one falls weak, the other will be strong had me stumped. And it is not even a scene that warrants this statement. But, when did the doctor say that? Didn't he say the opposite? Or maybe this was a comment on how a patient/parent/human being hears what they want to hear and not necessarily what was told to them.

                        Judwaa 2 wears its mindlessness on its sleeve. As if testing the audience's insanity.
                    
Yep, it is time to sign off. I am giving this one more thought than the filmmakers asked of themselves. I am assigning too much credit, when no one is even asking for it.    

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
