
If I get bored out of my mind watching such films again and again, don't the makers get bored of making them again and again. Maybe, it's because each team/person doesn't make as many as I watch. Fortunately. Khiladi 786 is yet another one of those painfully non-sensical, supposedly comic ones that you'd hesitate calling a film.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Khiladi 786 actually makes it too easy for a viewer to rip it apart. Every department is so awful at its job that you could begin anywhere to criticize it and that would be the right place to start. From action to editing to music to acting to dialogue to choreography - all you want to do is tear-your-hair-apart, but since you can't do that you just end up cringing. 
So much so that I am confident I could say the same thing about the story had there been an effort to write and tell one.
Do not be fooled by the initial set-up where you have a fake, macho police officer who plays Robin Hood and wants a woman to woo (Akshay Kumar); a mafia-leader called Tendulkar (Mithun Chakraborty) who has a sister (Asin) he wants to wed off; and a want-to-be match-maker (Himesh Reshammiya). A couple of lies later, you know the writers thought that's all that's needed to make a full length feature film.
Can you really blame a music director/singer turned actor turned writer to not know how to develop an idea into an enjoyable story? Not that that idea was great to start with, but we barely can tolerate him as a music director. And I want to erase the memory of Himesh Reshammiya trying to mimic himself by going double nasal in a song he sang for Akshay Kumar. In addition, his attempt at comic timing and pulling faces to draw a laughter from the audience only reminds me of school plays. Also, shouldn't it be a criminal offense to create a tune that is not only annoying but gets stuck in your head? I'm talking about 'khiladi bhaiyya, khiladi bhaiyya, khilaaadhi' which is repeated often enough in the film to get on your nerves and shamelessly flaunts its existence after you are out!
Anyway, it's a shame to see Mithun Chakravorty and Raj Babbar in such pithy, meaningless roles. Even if it has all kind of Gunda references for the former. And actually, it's a shame to see even Akshay Kumar put in his all for this one. Asin gets to play the same-old loud-mouth, brash woman. No creativity whatsoever there.
A lot of the fun is supposed to be had from the 'action' in such action comedies. And usually, I complain about the camera doing the action instead of the actors or their stunt doubles. But, funnily enough, here 72 Singh aka Khiladi 786 aka Akshay Kumar is a Speedy Singh. Which means he moves so fast that you cannot see him. And guess what? Shoddy editing is used to make things go missing to 'show' this action. It is outright insulting, patronizing and frustrating - all at once. 
Which pretty much summarizes all of Khiladi 786 - insulting, patronizing and frustrating.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
