
Whether or not it's true war story, The Ghazi Attack makes for a decent thriller. Once you have accepted all the technical jargon as true, that is. There is so much of the latter that believing the story is true becomes more and more difficult with every passing minute. Sure, sonar technology is mind-boggling and all the things shown might even be possible. There can still be no excuse for overt drama as the film progresses in a film that otherwise seemed to have been avoiding it. 

                        What makes a person become a soldier? You can't deny him his patriotism once he is on the field,
                    
War films with an undercurrent of mutiny always make for interesting stories. Your sensitivity is hooked from the word go because you know which country your loyalties lie with. But you are debating what side to be on, in the mutiny. What makes a person become a soldier? You can't deny him his patriotism once he is on the field. Is it wrong then, for him to follow his passion – of slaying the enemy without provocation? But if soldier were to follow this passion of theirs, there would be mayhem. These are the philosophies you are struggling with as you see the war between discipline-orders vs. killer instinct with an agenda. 
This build-up is thoroughly engaging, even if the end is mighty predictable from the beginning. However, post-interval this gives way to melodrama that you would expect in a typical war film. That is disappointing at first and gets boring soon enough. Then, our beliefs in bravery and a human body's physical capacity are tested.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The melodrama of course, seeps into the performances – from dialogue delivery to glistening eyes to exaggerated expressions. In a shot earlier in the film, for instance Atul Kulkarni is flustered between what he thinks might be right and what his commander (Kay Kay Menon) is commandeering. Without a line you know why Kulkarni is doing what he is doing. Come second half though, you see him lecture another officer in an extremely affected manner. The tone of the film sinks into the regular fare, from a controlled, nuanced clash of characters. 
Fortunately, the visual texture of the film stays the same. The film alternates between the murky blue, deep sea and the cringy, clanky, claustrophobic insides of a submarine without any respite. This makes the film stand out from the usual Hindi films and helps it stay true to what it wants to be – an uncomfortable, edgy watch. If only, the consistency in tone had stuck through the other departments of the film – especially the writing. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
