
On the one hand, yet again you have the common man finding himself stuck in the web of greed for power and money by the business-politics-law-order nexus. On the other hand you have yet another scary scam. On the one hand you have a scary scam you might not have heard of. On the other hand you have the regular story of a frustrated and disappointed common man taking on the system. Repeatedly, you may weigh one against the other but the Singham-usque take pulls the film down even as the scam, which brings a shudder down the spine, tries to pull it up. 

                        Because you know this inhumanity is not fiction.
                    
You cannot doubt the sincerity with which the writer/director take a shot at the issue of ground-chemical-induced cancer. It is one of those scams that you vaguely know of, but don't know the extent to which industry and agricultural pesticides have taken root. In fact, as Arjun Mishra (Arshad Warsi) is shaken up by events he unveils, you are too. Because you know this inhumanity is not fiction.
The details though aren't entertained. Many plot points seem like convenient ways to push the drama to the two-hour mark of run-time. An instance of a person murdering someone on their own side rather than the ones in the opposition left me puzzled. Then there is some mumbo-jumbo about a secret chemical formula, the importance of which was unclear. These bits take away from the impact that the film could have had and make it seem long-drawn for a 110 minute film.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Fortunately, we have performers who rarely let us down. Even, Rajesh Sharma who is usually made to ham and go over-the-top, delivers a relatively controlled performance. The film's digs at Bollywood's over-romanticisation of all things Punjab and all things idealistic too. But, then again it submits to the formula – a one-man stand against the system – that's the only solution we can seem to think of, even as we speak of issues that exist in real-life. But, I guess, there are no better ideas out there and this one seems to sell. 
Anyway, the one reason to look this one up is to get a peep into the eco-terrorism supposedly rampant in Punjab and hope against hope that it is only in Punjab. 



1 The lush green-and-yellow mustard farms that Punjab is famous for and romanticised by popular Hindi films.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
