
Did you know? The rich - both honest and corrupt - can love too, so what if they have money, they have a heart too. Baah! That is what Ajab Gazabb Love harps on. So, we have Madhuri (Nidhi Subbaiah) who carries fancy bags, struts on fancier shoes and has clothes that  seem to be wanting to make a fashion statement claims to hate the rich. If that isn't superficial enough, in a scene later in the film, she refuses to take money from her family while continuing a lavish lifestyle as a sociology student that the same money seems to have bought. If that weren't enough a very rich Rajveer (Jackky Bhagnani) falls for her and HAS to lie that he's poor for she ofcourse, hates the rich. That's how you juice the comedy out of this romantic comedy.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You wonder who Ajab Gazabb Love is targetted at. It couldn't be for the economically not-so-well-to-do because all it does through the film is make fun of the poor. Of course, it isn't so directly, it is masked under making fun of rich family who are compelled to behave like they are poor. And all this because of course, the script is all about the hundred other lies to cover that one like that Rajveer initiated.
Not one scene is devoid of pretentious melodrama giving the whole film a spoofy feel. A spoof of what, you wonder. Hindi films? Really? If that is the serious intention, it so didn't fit whatever can be called the story. The melodrama is brought to you by some extremely over-the-top acting by the support cast led from the front be Kirron Kher. Darshan Jariwala tries to bring in some calm and Arshad Warsi does make an attempt with a mix of his comic timing and a south Indian accent.
Nidhi Subbaiah has an extremely regressive and shallow role to play and she does whatever she can with it. Jackky Bhagnani starts off fine, but soon enough it becomes the run-of-the-mill mush typical of a movie that stereotypes so. However, there was one loud, hearty laugh by what seemed like 100% of the 20 people watching the film when Jackky oh-so-dramatically makes a serious 'sacrifice' dialogue and ends it with the most ridiculously lame line possible. Not that there are too many of other kind of lines. But this one was hilarious because it was so predictable. 
And of course, your patience with unpredictability is tested when you are subjected to a song out of the blue. The choreography, music and lyrics are as unoriginal as they look in the trailers. 
You don't really expect too much logic in a film that falls in this genre of rom-com that is intentionally over-the-top. But, you'd think there would be some charming moments between say father and son or mother and son or brother and sister in a film that seems to have so much family in its core story. I guess that's a bit much to expect when there no 'moments' even between the lead couple of this rom-com. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
