
Just the experience of watching a film like Bhoot Returns in the theater is annoying, where the audience is so sure of having come for a comedy film masked as a horror film that it can never stop giggling. Save a few minutes in the the last quarter of the film there wasn't a minute of silence in the audience. Continious chitter-chatter and/or laughter was on because of what was happening on screen or rather because of what was NOT happening. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The plot barely moved an inch in the first half. Night turned into day and day turned into night, with the nights getting longer but the material stayed pretty much the same. The attempt at replicating the Paranormal Activity effect again was superficial and quite plainly didn't work. 
While days passed, the dialogue was outright hilarious because it was so inane. While some of it might have been intentionally comic like say the hide-and-seek sequence, but it looked all too silly. For a change though background music, albeit loud, had been used a little differently and created a tiny bit of tension. The use of 3D on the other hand, was rather comical. It was employed either to give a wide-angle effect or to make items in the foreground obstruct the view to things/people in the background. 
While Manisha Koirala did a decent job of being scared, her character Namrata is disturbingly not your standard  loving mother. Even if a mother is self-centered, it is difficult to imagine her yelling at her child who is so obviously in need of help. 
The rest of the cast was just about okay but the dismal tele-marketing kind of dubbing for Madhu Shalini was extremely distracting. Not to mention, the only reason for her existence in the film seemed to be to add some X factor, for there's nothing she, as the possessed child's aunt did that either parent couldn't have done.
Personal judgments and role definitions aside the much advertised horrifying climax was a bit too uncomfortable to digest. And maybe that was exactly the aim of the film – to make its audience uncomfortable at the very thought. Yet, it makes me sick to even think that there might be people out there who are okay with what the conclusion implies. My usual complaint about having child artists play roles of possessed humans stays though, I guess, I can be relatively relieved that it is kept down to just one sequence which was not that intense either. 
While one can thank Mr Verma for keeping the film short at 90 minutes, the re-return of the Bhoot seems imminent. And that, I am certainly wary of. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
