
On the surface, it'd look like Jolly LLB 2 has Akshay Kumar do something different from the norm - relatively fewer songs, lesser drama than we'd expect, make it seem different. Soon enough though, we realise that the common man/police officer (be it from Singham, Dabangg, Rowdy Rathore, etc) who takes on the system is replaced by a lawyer. Even so, the drama, the back and forth between the two lawyers and the ever-entertaining judge in Saurabh Shukla keep you interested through the 2+ hours.

                        Akshay Kumar (Jolly) on the other hand merges with the background – in a good way.
                    
That's not to say, every minute is engaging. There are many scenes that stretch longer than necessary. They are usually at emotional turning points in the film. However, those extra seconds spent to underline the drama, take away from the impact. The courtroom drama too goes back and forth borderlining unbelievable every once in a while. But, that could just be to bring in the dreariness of the court room to the theater. The unrealistic bit is, of course the satire, intended to keep things light. Like they say in the film, you have to smile because you are in Lucknow. 
The satire within the court room works. However that outside the room, seems a bit much, even if it is hilarious. I am referring to a cricket match here. Or even the other wink at women power through Jolly's wife (Huma Qureshi). The rest of the writing conveniently bounces back and forth between the two sides of the case, keeping things interesting, but not entirely unexpected. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


What took me by surprise is the performances. They are not overboard. None of them were subtle, of course. But none were intolerably in-the-face. Each actor, be it Saurabh Shukla, Annu Kapoor or Huma Qureshi, owned the screen when they were on it. Akshay Kumar (Jolly) on the other hand merges with the background – in a good way.  Even if I discount my bias towards “stars” who tone their stardom down, Akshay Kumar makes you believe equally his helplessness and his over-confidence despite some very filmy lines. 
The State vs. Jolly LLB 2 is worth the time you spend watching it. Whether or not it is worth the energy spent in going to the theater and back, and the extra multiplex bucks will depend on your affection for Akshay Kumar, satire, courtroom drama and so on.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
