
OMG Oh My God reminds you of the coffee table conversations centered around faith, blind faith and the business of faith. It is similar to any argument you'd have between people who blindly believe in the hand of God and the misuse of that belief at the hands of the men of God. The attempt is to represent both sides and keep the arguments balanced while making its point. The frustration of the common man against the oppression of what should be done in the name of religion is quiet adequately represented. But, the happening are way too convenient and ultimately remain good in theory.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


At first, it seems Kanji bhai (Paresh Rawal) is a staunch opposer of the very existence of God. A non-believer, an atheist. He appears to be very close-minded to anything that the whole world has to say about faith. But, as the story moves forward you realize that his issue is more against the business that God has become and is even open to accepting a change in his attitude. 
All this is shown in interesting arguments Kanjibhai makes with high-ranking priests. The balance is thrown off with making mere caricatures out of these priests. The exaggeration of these cartoon-ish characters might have been necessary but painting them as dimwits takes away from his fight, makes it too easy for us to take his side. However, I saw balance in the climax. The story is taken beyond the apparent conclusion, the argument though stretched takes it to a proper culmination. 
Interestingly, the film is set in the most festive period of the year. The months in which we celebrate births and victories of Lords Krishna, Ganpati and Ram. Also, the questions related to existence of God itself are dealt with smartly. Believer or non-believer, you will see yourself smiling and questioning what you believe in.
Paresh Rawal could possibly have done this role in his sleep. Not taking anything away from his heartfelt performance, he played it with conviction. Akshay Kumar plays a charming Krishna and does his bit by staying away from the limelight. Mithun Chakravorty despite his overtly caricaturish character brings a laugh every time he moves his eyebrow or moves his little finger – which is pretty much all he does. Most of the rest of the cast though are a pain to bear through and you thank God for Paresh Rawal being there in almost every scene. 
For people like me who are in almost 100% agreement with Kanji, it is easy to identify with Kanji. The question is how does this film effect people who have blind faith, who are superstitious, people who are represented by the likes of his wife. Like I said earlier this week, it's not that anyone can expect a film to change lifelong beliefs, but this one has the potential to at least reconsider some beliefs.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
