
Forgive me as I’ve not been an avid reader of the Marvel comics, so this review might be one of just the film. That said, I found myself hooting, cheering, laughing out loud and enjoying every minute of The Avengers, without being the comic-book fan. I did, however, read up at length about each character and their graph before the film, but even without a background study, The Avengers is a must-watch: for sheer indulgence into a world that is action-packed, entertaining and thrilling all at once. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The Avengers intertwine the lives of previous superheroes (with their own movies): Captain America, Thor, Iron Man and Hulk. With Black Widow (Scarlett Johanssen) and Hawk-Eye (Jeremy Renner), they are brought together to prevent an event of global danger. 
Our heroes (and heroine) are tracking down the Tesseract, a cube of cosmic super-power, which was also present in the movies Iron Man 2, Captain America: The First Avenger and Thor. The Tesseract has landed itself in the wrong hands of Loki (Tom Hiddleson), the film’s wily villain and also Thor’s step-brother. Loki’s intentions are clear - to rule to world and subjugate as King. 
Director of the secret international peace-keeping organization S.H.I.E.L.D, Nick Fury (Samuel Jackson) is worried and desperate. He rounds our super-heroes to save the world from this feudal monster – and it’s a cliché that works superbly. It holds you, makes you sit on the tiny, uncomfortable edge of the seat and rejoice/scream/cheer. The film takes no time to establish each super-hero, and through the film makes sure every characteristic of the heroes are brought in. Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man is sassy and suave as ever, Chris Evans as Captain America is brave and confused as the defiant World War II veteran.  
The new entrants are as charming: Mark Ruffalo as the Hulk fits the part to a T, and Scarlett Johansson plays the sly Russian Spy Black Widow incorporating her personal flair to the character. Oh, but you spend roughly 10 mins of the film analyzing the characters. Before you know it, you are picked up from your seat and taken on the epic adventure that these Avengers take. 
Director Joss Whedon maintains an engaging pace, while the film shifts between blasting action sequences and witty repartee between characters. Ofcourse Robert Downey Jr. as Iron Man is at the fore-front of the humor, but surprisingly every character follows through. You are given enough moments in the film to laugh out loud and generally, have a good time. It’s a balance that has been struck to perfection. Although the plot-line is formulaic and a tad bit predictable, the film does leave you spontaneously wide-eyed with its compelling chemistry between each character and the witty-dialogue/grand-action routine. 
The Avengers is a mammoth spectacle. And yet, in retrospect you don’t feel deceived by an overdose of mindless action. Each character holds their own in the film, and is therefore a treat for those who prefer one particular character over another (Iron Man!). The 3D version adds to the grandeur of the film, with fluid camera work, you feel like a part of an adrenaline-pumped videogame. At 146 mins, The Avengers is worth every minute of your time.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Swetha Ramakrishnan. Swetha Ramakrishnan is currently living and working in Mumbai. She's a self-confessed film enthusiast and can most likely be found talking to anyone and everyone about popular cinema and her love for SRK. 
    
      Swetha Ramakrishnan also blogs at http://swetharamakrishnan.blogspot.com/.
    
    
  
