
Raaz 3 is a very regular horror film. It provides it share of unintended laughs, goes through the motions of trying to spook you with sudden peek-a-boo by the devil. And since there is a devil at work you cannot escape the age old science vs. faith argument. Unfortunately, nothing about the way it is done is novel either. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sure, you get to see Bipasha Basu in a viciously negative role and you do wish death upon her. But what you see in the trailer, is just about what she maintains for the length of the film. Somehow the character's arc sounds way too similar to that from Heroine except the black magic part, hopefully. 
If Bipasha plays the dark witch, Shanaya, Esha Gupta is the purest of pure whites, Sanjana. Which basically translates to her screaming and getting scared a whole lot. This must certainly be covered in Acting 101, and Esha Gupta does that just fine, except for the times her diction goes off.
Bang between the two is gray Aditya (Emraan Hashmi) who is caught between what seems like duty and love. Herein lies the greatest folly of Raaz 3's concept. Something as disastrous as black magic is supported by Aditya for some flimsy reasons. You are never once convinced that he is that subservient to Shanaya's wishes. Emraan Hashmi, must be able to carry such roles with effortless ease, especially since he gets to seal a couple of problem situations with what he does best, a  kiss. 
Besides the regular stock of songs and aerobic dances, Raaz 3 has its expected share of scenes that are meant to scare with a relentlessly thumping background score. Not a single of these 'scary' scenes come as a shock that will make you edge towards the end of the seat. This is despite a reasonable dilemma faced by Aditya. But, it isn't taken too far and the struggle is too superficial. The 3D too is used either just for the sake of it except for just a couple of times for a few 'horror' scenes, not to mention that you can see the blur/ghost at times even while wearing the 3D glasses.
Everything about Raaz 3 feels shallow and very uni-dimensional. Even a character as gray as Aditya, isn't treated with any detail. Raaz 3 is yet another run-of-the-mill, Bhatt horror film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
