
I am so tempted to repeat the first paragraph of the Raees review. It truly is heartening to see actors, who we associate with a certain type of cinema, do something slightly different. Just that bit is enough for me to not complain about them not breaking the mould completely. Kaabil might not be the best thriller out there, but it surely keeps you wondering, “HowHeDunnit”. And that bit doesn't disappoint.

                        Kaabil might not be the best thriller out there, but it surely keeps you wondering, “HowHeDunnit”.
                    
Kaabil reminded me a lot of  Aankhen. It had to, right? And I have this strong feeling that some plot points, if not all have been inspired from elsewhere. The tone of the film from the beginning kind of gives away how things are going to go with our hero. Also, the film spends a good half of the film on the couple but doesn't leave an emotional tug. These two things put together make Kaabil a little underwhelming.
Nevertheless, the curiosity about how it is done takes you through the film. Also, Hrithik Roshan  is angry and sad more than being all goody-goody. When he does the latter, it usually gets annoying in the first few minutes. This could be why Yami Gautam and he don't make your hearts go all mush despite capable execution by Yami Gautam. The aggressive bits, Hrithik Roshan does much better though and that works for Kaabil. Ronit Roy and Girish Kulkarni add to this intensity by being the bad men that they might soon be stereotyped as. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The songs jar and the item number thrown in for good measure distracts from the seriousness of the film. However, Sanjay Gupta does control himself in the editing and camerawork department. There are no unnecessary quirks or choppy cuts which add to the films intensity. 
While the dynamics of how the thrill is brought about are written well, the  main character's transition bothered me. On the other hand, it has always bothered me when films have a common man, who is disappointed by the system, take matters into his own hands. So, that would make me reject half the films in this genre, right?



In that sense then, Kaabil is a worthy watch. Despite all the ifs and buts. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
