
I love it when a film shows most of what is covered in the promos in the first few minutes of the film. That means they haven’t given away too much and I have a lot of new stuff to look forward to. But, of course, I shouldn’t have begun to hope because the twists of Ek Tha Tiger are clear from a mile away. The rest of the story is just another love story, this once, masked under the guise of feuding nations, instead of feuding families. The ‘message’ being of international peace. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Thankfully, the message isn’t drilled down in preachy dialogue. Yet, the dialogue isn’t what one is used to in a Salman film - oozing of style and filminess. Not that that makes the dialogue subtle or likeable. It is just plain lines trying their best to make an impact. Unsuccessfully.
This failure has nothing to do with Salman Khan’s usual lack of emotion in dialogue. Nor does it have anything to do with Katrina’s reversion to lifeless dialogue delivery (which is sad to watch.) The writing just doesn’t carry that kind of weight or charm. Every time, you think there might be a decent ‘moment’ coming up, you are let down by something very ordinary. The heart vs. brain dilemma or even the interesting crossroads that India and Pakistan’s intelligence agencies find themselves in is a very thin thread to hook your interest on. 
But hey, what do you need any of that for when you have two of the best-looking people in the industry filling every frame of the screen. Interestingly, Ek Tha Tiger, unlike most Salman films or even action films, gives the lead lady a lot to play with and a lot more screen time. A welcome change, however wasted it might have been rendered by Katrina Kaif’s emotionless, heavily made up, facial muscles - almost as if she was directed to match Salman’s attempt at acting.
The songs too have very little Salman about them. They look and sound like any other regular masala flick. Except for ‘mashaallah’ which you have to wait for until the end credits. 
The question then remains – should they have attempted to have a coherent story when they didn’t intend to make anything substantial, impactful or entertaining about it? Or should they have simply stuck to what Salman Khan fans enjoy best - mindless action. 
The action too is more or less lackluster, except for the chase sequence in the climax. Seeing a woman in a Hindi film do cat-like moves is entertaining, alright. But, of course, they had to go ahead and spoil it by some awful use of what looks like green screen and shoddy post-production work. 
Ek Tha Tiger is an underwhelming experience for a neutral party like me. But going by the fact that I heard almost all dialogue and none of it died down with whistles and cheers tells me that would be a fan’s take too.
Oh yes, ladies, you do get a glimpse of a shirtless Salman Khan. Fine, gents too.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
