
One of the most annoying things about films that aren't working for you is the genre switch they tend to make through out the film. Did the writer/director want to make a romantic film? Or was it a thriller they were shooting for? Or was it a psycho's story they were trying to narrate? Or did they wish to comment about the system that we are a part of, which is rotting from the very insides? Or was their intention to have steamy scenes featuring a real-life porn star, trying to see how far they could push the envelope?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Jism 2's jerkily shifts from one to another without any attempt at keeping a smooth flow. And this is no directorial/editorial experiment we are talking about. The movie goes about narrating whatever little content it has, with all the time in the world and there is no fast-paced, quirky cuts. It is slow and it is mostly boring. 
The romance is laden with some mumbo-jumbo philosophy. The thriller doesn't manage to engage you too much despite the potential that a Robin Hood-ish protagonist has. His psychopathic inclinations seem out-of-place because we are not entertained to his life experiences, motivations or perception. A monologue at the end of the film is hardly something to suddenly get us interested. And as far at the steamy scenes go, you've seen pretty much all, if you've seen the trailers. 
Unless you call heavy-duty heaving a part of body language which contributes to acting, Sunny Leone can't act. She barely has any screen presence in terms of captivating our attention by her presence on screen. Arunoday Singh and Randeep Hooda try their best to emote, but this is just the wrong film. And whatever they do ultimately feels like they are overdoing it. Everything in frame looks just so fake and forced. The emotions, the relationships, the connections, the attractions, the power, the anger, the helplessness. 
Then you are left with hollow dialogue to fill you in with what might be happening. And that is exactly what the words sound like even they seem like they are trying to make some profound sense. At other times it is just inane. 
On the other hand, I wasn't expecting much from the film either, so it was just a question of sitting through it and waiting for the slow proceeds to be done with.  

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
