
Is this love? To marry or not to marry? I am sure a lot of couples go through these questions - more so now than a couple of decades ago. A lot of the hesitation seems to come from experience, introspection and knowing what they want, some of it seems to come from “we are too  cool for love/marriage” self-assuredness. All well. All valid. The question is, how many such stories can I watch and enjoy, though? I had pretty much reached my limit even before OK Jaanu.

                        Then you realise that you just don't feel all the passion that the lead couple is putting up for show.
                    
Of course, I watch one after another, the romantic in me even looks forward to almost all of them. This is in the hope for that one moment of “spark”, that one fresh insight on relationships, that one instance of being together which connects me to the characters. OK Jaanu has none of these. 
Interestingly individually some of the departments worked very well. Some scenes, especially those shot in the Mumbai trains went well with the pace of the relationship and its confusion. The background music and absence thereof also provided just the right amount of calmness between the mad, supposedly intense love between the lead couple. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Again, individually Shraddha Kapoor (Tara) and Aditya Roy Kapoor (Adi) emote what they are supposed to. A sleepwalk role for Naseeruddin Shah (Paplu), of course. Kitu Gidwani and Leela Samson (Paplu's wife, Baby) are rather wooden under the garb of being stern and having Alzheimer's respectively. Even so, the three main performances keep you going for a bit.
Then you realise that you just don't feel all the passion that the lead couple is putting up for show. It is certainly not for want of trying. But it is a bit too in-the-face for you to believe it. And it seems endless. There is only so much baseless sweetness I can handle.



The only thing that worked for me is the juxtaposition of Adi-Tara's relationship against that between Paplu and Baby. While I am thankful that there wasn't an overt comparison, this contrast wasn't explored either. The steady, unbreakable bond between Paplu and Baby is very similar to that between Adi and Tara and yet it is different. Are age and experience what set these relationships apart? Or is it just the 'M' word? 
To begin with OK Jaanu has very little to hold your interest. What with a name that seems to be an excuse for the couple to call each other by the purportedly cute nickname, “Jaanu”? As the movie moves along, you realise the filmmakers aren't really interested in getting you interested. They are just smitten by their own coolness of having brought up “live-in” relationships to Indian cinema. eyeroll

                        They are just smitten by their own coolness of having brought up “live-in” relationships to Indian cinema.
                    
So, if you get peeved off by that kind of love-doveyness, this one isn't for you. If you find it cute...naah, even then it's not for you.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
