
Disgusting, regressive, juvenile, crass, crappy. All this is what I expected. But Kyaa Super Kool Hain Hum isn't even any of that. The indifference with which I could watch the entire film was pretty saddening. I didn't even feel like disliking the film, like it didn't even deserve that kind of response. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sure, there was lots of loud cackle in the theater. Yet, it wasn't as much as I thought there would be. There were a lot of slack times when there was no puerile pun, no supposedly adult joke, no mockery of gay people. They were just drab spans of few minutes each when you could sense the boredom in the theater, assisted ever-so-slightly with a loud remark, "stop boring us." 
However, when there was laughter, it was so hard that I, for a second, wished that I could enjoy the 'non-veg' jokes the way some of the people in the audience were. It is a release to have such a hearty laugh. But all I could think was, really, THAT was funny?
But, this was soon overcome by feeling bad for the lead male actors. Riteish Deshmukh and Tusshar Kapoor try hard, you can see the amount of energy such a performance needs, yet all you can feel is sad for them. They've had to regress mentally by a good 20 years. You can imagine how sorry I felt when I saw  Anupam Kher address dogs as humans and sulk when he sees them mate. Yes, there is a lot of dog-mating talk in the film.
The women, have to sit pretty and look gorgeous and they do that all well. And well, of course, dance. The songs are peppy and energetic but the lyrics felt like they were trying too hard to make sense. 
What I found the most hilarious was they actually tried to have a plot to string all of this together. Along with being mockery telemarketing, Rohit Shetty brand of films, and almost everything else that can be considered intelligent, Kyaa Super Kool Hain Hum ends up being a mockery of story writing itself. 
Like always, I find myself trying too hard to make sense of films that weren't intended to be taken that seriously. But then again, I am a part of that audience. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
