
It's a Rohit Shetty film. Which smoothly slides into Anees Bazmee territory and a dash of Priyadarshan 'comedies'. Oh, who am I kidding? Soon, I'm not going to be able to tell the difference. What we know for sure is it is 100% nonstop nonsense. Either you like it or you don't. Or you like the star involved in the ridiculous extravaganza or not. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And this time they didn't bother with writing a story. They just picked a classic from yesteryears. Usually with a 'remake' I try to forget/ignore/disregard whatever I know about the original to do full justice to the newer film. But here, try as one might, you aren't allowed to forget the likeness. Time and again, crudely and brutally you are reminded who the makers are paying a tribute to. 
An exaggerated mimicry of Amol Palekar-Utpal Dutt might work once, but repeating it or making constant references to it only highlights how inept the tribute is. Just calling themselves middle-class doesn't make the characters so, right? The way they dress, whether shoes or make-up deny believability. Oh, there I go again! hmph.
So we have Abhishek Bachchan replace Amol Palekar and Ajay Devgan replace Utpal Dutt and you hold back your tears. The interesting point is that this is despite the fact that I like both Abhishek Bachchan and Ajay Devgan as actors. And given the context of the film, the genre, and the director their timing is pretty good and they manage to not annoy you completely despite the characters assigned to them. Especially Abhishek Bachchan as the effeminate Abbas is quite a racket.
What I must say is that this must be the best respect(?) homosexuality might have received in mainstream cinema. Sure, he was being laughed at but at least it wasn't mocking and there was some level of acceptance. Some progress. 
The rest of the cast is as expected, loud and pretty much intolerable except for Asin and Prachi Desai who try to bring in some sort of order and balance to the chaos but of course aren't given enough room. 
There's a flurry of tributes to other films from Karz to Hrishikesh Mukherjee's other film Khoobsurat. They are all funny conceptually but everything is so loud and disconnected that they work at best as stand-alone one-liners. Not to mention, even the one-liners throughtout the film are no more entertaining than SMS forwards - some jokes at other times inspirational quotes. 
No, I don't deny it; I wasn't deaf to the resounding laughter at each ridiculous line stuffed with stylized delivery. It's like the Hindi proverb, 'haath kangan ko aarsi kya' that is, 'hand bangle what mirror mirror on the wall?' only imagine that delivered by a muscular Ajay Devgan who makes sure his chest tattoos show just a peek. Yes that's the kind of complete disconnect between the actual proverb, the situation at hand and the humor it tries to use. The humor is indeed to be found in the disconnect. There are a couple instances that are genuinely hilarious. But, the rest of them find their laughs because of how silly it sounds. I, however, could enjoy the humor only a couple of times. 
Oh, and the action is also a letdown from usual Rohit Shetty standards. Many sequences have the sound design, the camera and the editing do the action instead of Ajay Devgan and Abhishek Bachchan.
Everything is too over-the-top, too loud, too in-the-face. There is just way too much room the writers give themselves so that the audience can leave their brains behind. Only that, I am a part of that audience who doesn't want to or rather who couldn't be convinced to. 
Ps. 'haath kangan ko aarsi kya' means 'you don't need a mirror to look at your bangle/bracelet - you don't need a mirror to see the obvious'

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
