
Love transcends generations. True love transcends logic. Romantic relationships were the same a hundred years ago and will live their viciously circular life for ages to come. Most of us know this first-hand, yet there are some parts of our lives we don’t mind watching Priyanka Chopra and Shahid Kapoor enact. But, three times is two times too much. Teri Meri Kahaani takes the concept a little too seriously and offers no variety in the sameness of love over a century. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


One of the things Teri Meri Kahaani tries to convey is that when love is at first sight; when connections seem magical; when vibes run too strong to ignore – it could imply a deeper bond. A bond that crosses life-times. A beautiful thought that. But writer, Kunal Kohli doesn’t  do anything exceptional with this lovely theme. Teri Meri Kahaani ends up being the same ol’ love story repeated in a span of two hours.
One would then think that the way the three stories tie in would mean something more than just, ‘it’s meant to be’. Unfortunately, the climax which builds up nicely is a damp squib. Yet, the film holds up because of the performances, some sparkling dialogue and the inherent sweetness of romantic relationships as they are when they start.
We see Shahid Kapoor and Priyanka Chopra disarm each other with their charm thrice and if it doesn’t get tiring it is only because of their performances. Many moments and lots of chemistry keep you engaged in them as actors, even if the story and characters aren’t all that interesting. 
This is despite the fact that all three characters that each one of them play are almost the same, except for Ruksar who is a meek yet popular film star. Both Radha and Aradhana are strong personalities who know what they want out of life. On the other hand, Govind, Krissh and Javed are all arrogant smart-Alecks. It’s amazing then that Priyanka Chopra and Shahid Kapoor manage to emote with a wide variety and bring some flavor to their three almost similar characters. I especially enjoyed what Shahid Kapoor does with Javed. 
Prachi Desai in her short presence leaves you feeling for her, more so because of the way she portrays the way her character faces the truth. Neha Sharma annoys well as the ‘typical girlfriend’ character. The rest of the supporting cast has nothing that makes you notice them, but I just don’t get why such awful actors are chosen to play the British officers.
The period setting of the 1950s is cute – it doesn’t look authentic at all, but the textile industry from the times when Phoneix Mills was actually a mill does give you a flavor of the era. So does Shahid Kapoor’s  tribute to Charlie Chaplin and Kunal Kohli’s tribute to the silent era. 
On the other hand the culture depicted from those times in terms of say how a girl would behave in a small village in the 1910s or dress in a Bombay chawl in the 1950s is very difficult to digest. And lovely poetry aside, is nothing sacred about the freedom struggle – an energetic, completely romantic  song in the middle of a jail!? Really?
There is no difficulty on the other hand in accepting the role technology plays in romance of the 2010s. Neither is it difficult to accept the nastiness of the woman scorned. 
Bits engage you; parts make you smile, laugh and LOL; and many chunks make you wonder why this film couldn’t be at least a little different from just three love stories hurriedly put together. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
