
The brand-combination Rajkumar Hirani-Vidhu Vinod Chopra invariably brings a warm film, fairly well-made film. They make very simple use of the tools, no glitter, no glamor, no grit or grim either. Just an outlandish yet sweet story and a very strict focus on their intention, on what it is they want to convey this time. They do touch upon many side issues that come along organically, but they don't lose sight of the basic issue they take up. And like every other time they manage to make me forgive the irritants and go with the flow and enjoy their film for what it is.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I'm not taking anything away from director, Rajesh Mapuskar for all the good things going for the film. Just the performances alone make him worthy of all the credit he deserves. It's just that the Hirani-VVC stamp is so resounding in the story-telling. 
A 12-year old, Kayo (Ritvik Sahore) is good with the cricket bat, exceptionally good. But his curse is that his dad, Rustom (Sharman Joshi) can't afford a training camp in London which Kayo so deserves to go to. Another deterrent is a disgruntled and non-supportive grandfather, Deboo (Boman Irani). And then you join in on a fun trip on how Rustom makes sure his son's aspirations are met. 
The means Rustom uses put the film in fantasy zone. But, the makers want exactly that - to suck you into the unbelievability of the basic plot and make you root for its characters. Characters which have been beautifully developed. So warm they are, that you let go of your need for unpredictability. Rustom is introduced to you as the ideal citizen who, given his background and the premise of the story, will have to at some point sell his soul. You know Deboo is in dire need of a cathartic moment and he'll have to find it in the next two hours or so. And yet, the how is engaging and entertaining.
This brand's weakness for coming up with an over-the-top, even more unbelievable climax is well-known. And they pretty much stick to it. But hey, a few beautiful moments, some wonderful scenes between characters, a heart that's warming you from the inside as you walk out of the theater - if these are the takeaways, why not? But for a moment or two, the climax sticks to the overall tone of the story thus far. The things that happen in those couple of moments are annoying but the quibble in the head dissolves as you accept it, even if grudgingly so.
The many issues the film touches upon either in passing or with a little more importance than that and the subtlety with which it's done reaches out to you. From the standard potshot at media behavior and a little more elaborate one at the bureaucracy in Indian sports and well the, law & administration to the irony of Sachin Tendulkar and his Ferrari - Ferrari Ki Sawari covers a broad spectrum.
Parenting - the basic theme that it covers - is the one that attaches the film to its audience. The father-son-father relationship is handled with such brilliant charm. It is a battle of generations, it is a battle of parenting styles. The manner in which Rustom (along with Kayo's coach) handles Kayo's aspirations and behavior issues can serve as a parenting guide. In contrast, only to show a mirror to the regular, and if I may add, Indian parenting methodology you have Rustom's dad and another relationship between a politician and his son. 
Of utmost importance is the missing mother or in fact, any significant female character. And the one woman in a supporting role has very little feminine about her (which is also subtly alluded to in a scene where she just about passes of as a man). As a woman, I am glad Ferrari Ki Sawaari was conscious to keep the lady-factor out. Behind all the Sachin-Sachin and Ferrari-Ferrari the film harps about, is a very strong thread of the relationship of a child with his father. A role that only HE can play. 
That I haven't mentioned the fantastic performances so far is a testimony to how much else there is going on in the film. Boman Irani - oh what a performer! - his stagger, the lopside of his mouth, the tongue sticking out demonstrating the slug that his life has turned him into, and I can go on. Rustom's simple-mindedness wouldn't have come across if it wasn't for Sharman Joshi's demeanor. Even Seema Bhargava as the jugaadu event manager is as real as any Bombayite could get. Aakash Dhabade as Sachin Tendulkar's domestic help is a huge take away from the film. The small exchange between Paresh Rawal and Boman Irani itself is worth the ticket money for an ardent film-lover.
Yes, it would have worked better if the film was shorter. Yes, a few extra characters could have been avoided to make the film crisper. But Ferrari ki Sawaari wasn't intended to be crisp, it was intended to give you that lovely feeling inside. That feeling of having giving in to the fantasy, the feeling of being inspired and involved while watching a fun film, the feeling of having watched a decent film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
