
Men in Black 3 has all the reasons to remind you why you loved the first film. It’s revives the same recipe that made Men in Black  such a success over a decade ago: many laugh-out-loud moments, roaring chemistry between actors, a nemesis worth his salt and a film that doesn’t solely rely on VFX heavy sequences to define action.Men in Black 3 is uninhibited, the chemistry between Jones and Smith is crackling and the movie makes you feel nostalgic about the last time you were in the theatre watching the first part. (I’m deliberately excluding the 2nd part of the series; let’s just call that one a derailed attempt.)





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


This time around, Agent J is sent back in time to 1969 to prevent their nemesis Boris the Animal, (crazy and convincing alien performance by Jemaine Clement) from killing Agent K. This task lies at the fundamental of restoring the agency’s security, which is now headed by Agent O (Emma Thompson). This leap back in time involves Smith jumping from a 40-storied bulding in New York, and don’t we all just love that? Well, that was just the beginning. 
The next few hours of the film will have you duly entertained, not majorly because of a hooking plot but the growing relationship between Agent J and a younger Agent K (played by Josh Brolin). Brolin as a younger K is absolutely bang-on with his mannerisms and you find yourself wondering in awe if he was ever a choice for the original role of Agent K. Smith is his usual humorous self, and their growing friendship plays out as a backdrop to the dire need to save K from a snarling and menacing Borris.
Back in the 60s, you find yourself convinced that a time-leap has been made. The set, costumes and characteristics are infact, very 60s. Unlike the first film however, where the charm lay in its unpredictable humour that caught you off-guard, Men in Black 3 possesses a subtle version of that same humour. You do find yourself being engrossed with the happenings, mostly by the contrasts between the two characters (Brolin is serious and unaware, and Smith is constantly jabbering), but you do find yourself always hoping for more, for the plot/characters/action to jump that extra mile. Which they don't.
Much like the first film, you are rewarded with action-packed fight sequences and the right amount of special effects, although the 3D seemed a bit forceful and could be done away with. Men in Black 3 is a must watch for those of you loved the first film – its a rightful journey of nostalgia. For those of you who haven’t followed the series – watch the film for Will Smith, who’s always a stellar performer, and for a reminder of how fantasy films were made in the 90s. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Swetha Ramakrishnan. Swetha Ramakrishnan is currently living and working in Mumbai. She's a self-confessed film enthusiast and can most likely be found talking to anyone and everyone about popular cinema and her love for SRK. 
    
      Swetha Ramakrishnan also blogs at http://swetharamakrishnan.blogspot.com/.
    
    
  
