
As hard as it is to believe, Tees Maar Khan subtly remarks about the state of the country. National treasure being passed on from the administrative authorities to thugs. What else is it, if it is not a commentary, when the same thugs make a mockery of the law and order system - standing smack in the middle of a courtroom? All this by a "con artist" pulling off a heist almost as if he has the blessings of the police. Trying to make sense out of the non-stop chaos that the rest of the film is, these subtleties may seem like accidents. But, you have to give this one to them. Using a village full of village fools as representatives, the filmmakers are certainly pointing a big fat finger at us, the audience who laps up this stuff in the name of masala.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I didn't grow up watching Keislowski and Fellini. Far from it. I was brought up to love masala-makers turned filmmakers.  I laughed and cried with the actors and the characters they played. Then too, it was a world ruled by stars. But now I laugh with contempt and weep at only one person - me. A part of the audience. 
How and when did definition of masala entertainment change from a coherent story to a broadly set-up plot strung together with the most plainly written sub-sequences? When did strong romantic undercurrent transform into Sheila romancing her own jawaani or the hero overtly and superficially caring about her modesty? The only thing that seems to have come through the decades is the random breaking into song and dance. Oh well, Jai Ho? 
I agree Katrina Kaif played the annoying bimbo to perfection, but then, was it acting at all? I don't mean this as an insult, I just question her choice of a role. I cannot even bring myself to comment on Akshay Kumar's loud utterances of words that seem to be getting at a sentence. Because most of the time, he's either saying "ta...f ki izzat ..something..tees maar khan...something..." or is just narrating what's going to happen in the story in the next 20 minutes. 
Incidentally the word "tawaif" (haaaw, I said it!) is beeped out as per censor requirements. And I think Farah Khan has the last laugh on this one because what we end up hearing is "beeeep..f..ki izzat..." That one cracked me up. And a couple of other jokes. 
I know you are supposed to laugh at the silliness. But I demand that the silliness be funny not lame. I'd like to respect the woman (Farah) for making a film, it's a difficult process, I admit. But, I'd like a little respect in return, for my sense and sensibility.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
