
An exciting start introduces you to a gamut of cartoon characters who largely represent real-life stereotypes but have potential to entertain. Unfortunately, the length of the film is restricted by the attention span of the target audience, clearly under 10. Hence, no justice can be done to any of those characters. So, you are left with a mish-mash of characters that just about stay together as a story. A story of a father wanting to be a hero for his kids, so what if it is fighting cartoons with the help of cartoons.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I'm sure kids below ten will enjoy the film, its gimmickry, slapstick included. But, I don't really like the idea of well-endowed women trying to move it and attract the attention of a man they woo by calling him handsome and hot. More so because these women are animated and meant to entertain kids
Sure, there's more to the film than the vamp, the anti-vamp and the wife who's insecure of women in sketch. I liked the bit where a dad's presence at a school race is more important to a child than the race itself. Similarly, it felt warm to see the importance a dad gives to his son's admonition and name-calling because the dad sees truth in it. 
But this warmth fizzles out as characters are introduced and you are disconnected slowly and surely from one and all. You don't root for anyone and you aren't scared for anyone's safety because of the threat the villain poses. In fact, the villain isn't given enough screen time to make an impact at all; most of it is hogged by Ajay Devgn and his childish antics. 
This is even more evident when some room is given to "rub-doot", a cartoon eraser. Those 5-7 minutes of his screen time are thoroughly enjoyable. I wish more such fun times were spent writing meatier bits for other characters. Over and above being superior to animation done thus far, we need some superior writing - animation or not. The wonderful glimpse you get makes you wonder, why you couldn't have had more. 
For those few moments, I just might send my kids to watch the film. Or maybe will have them wait for the DVD to be out on rent. Or maybe not. Or whatever.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
