
No one, (yes, including me), walks in to watch Yamla Pagla Deewana expecting an intense experience or a strong story line. Everyone is in there to have a good laugh, come out, and laugh that they laughed. And a scene or two that stick in the head, even after you are out, is a bonus. Even with my expectations being what they should be, I found very few funny or entertaining bits. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I'm talking of earthen pots pausing in mid-air in pseudo-Matrix fashion. Only to be lamely put away by Sunny Deol's "dhai kilo ka haath."  Creativity, element of surprise is not for this filmmaker. 
The actors, well, they do whatever Sunny Deol, Bobby Deol and (today's) Dharmendra can do. I was worried I wouldn't be able to hear the dialogue in the middle of all the hooting. But it wasn't a concern at all. The trio is louder beyond that. After all, it is supposedly a prerequisite for the genre. 
Kulraj Randhwa's role exists so there is some sort of coherence to the planned chaos that the film is. As usual, I was disheartened to see Anupam Kher do a role which demeans his talent.
The blatant disregard for the 'writing' department is so obvious that I cannot really complain about how the character establishment of Dharmendra and Bobby Deol as conmen had absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the film. And there are many such glaring disconnects. In between this mayhem, it was only a pleasure to listen to a few witty lines strewn across that brought that occasional smile. But that is way too little for a film that is just short of 3 hours.
Presenting nonsense is an art form. Watching the entire Deol family dance in one frame is not my idea of entertaining nonsense. Other than that, the action sequences and the stylization - the two other reasons why one would consider watching this film - are as lame as they could be. 
The interesting thing though is that whether you think the film is going to be - hardcore silly entertainment that you love or brainless torture of the senses - your expectations will be fulfilled. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
