
Whatever you can expect from a film with - an attention grabbing promo; based on a newspaper story that is close to home for one and all of us; directed by the person who made a strong statement with his debut, Aamir; AND aspires to be a commercial success - is delivered.  It's entertaining, it makes its point and it reaches out to us. Then, even if the film simplifies the struggle that the common man has to go through to get his basic right, it feels like it is only so that we keep our hopes strong in this age of a scam a day. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Of course, the state of affairs we live in is disturbing beyond measure. So much so that, we applaud something that should be taken for granted - honest bureaucrats, police, and politicians. As the 'aitbaar' song in the film goes - trust is melting away. 
Thankfully, there are cases like these to restore that faith to however small an extent. And thankfully, there are people in the film industry who can and are willing to make such films to serve as reminders. 
They also have selected a brilliant team, which brings to screen situations the way that we might have visualized them when we read the newspapers. And more. The story has a good measure of details that are not necessarily known to people who haven't keenly followed the case. The narrative is also kept interesting with the non-linear references to Sabrina's relationship with her sister. 
The performances only add to what already is an interesting setup. You love the bitch in Mira (Rani Mukherjee) and the cow in Sabrina (Vidya Balan). You get into their story more because of the bit roles played by a reasonably well-staffed supporting cast. 
The earnest but dumb, junior journalist Aditi (Maanvi Gagroo) is funny because of the situation she is put in. I loved the way Aditi's side-story subtly shows how Mira makes up to her. The submissive, clueless, simple middle class man, Sanjit Lal (Yogendra Tikku) makes you feel the frustration his daughter Sabrina might have gone through. 
The powerful politician's side-kick is only too proud to "take care" of the witnesses and evidence. And the most impressive was the actor who played inspector (name, anyone?). His role in the case is such a huge finger pointed at the country's administration. 
I could've have done with a little less dramatization, for example entry of the key witness into the courtroom. But, I'd much rather see a commercial success for films like these than cater to my preferences. 
Isn't it commendable, that a film about such a serious issue leaves you in good humor, without taking away anything from the message. A lot of it has to do with the witty dialogue and amusing (or made amusing) situations. Another huge chunk of credit goes to Amit Trivedi (oh, how I have restrained myself from saying 'the one and only'!) His music in combination with Amitabh Bhattacharya's lyrics tell you a lot more than the basic story itself. 
Sure, I would have liked the setup in the first half to have led up to something a little less anti-climactic. Sure, the pace could have been a little better in the first half, which might have made the second half look better. Yet, these seem like mere nitty-gritty when you notice the emotional high that the film has left you with. And especially when you compare it to the huge reminder it is. Of our strength, if only we choose to use it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
