
Exactly as you'd expect, Rowdy Rathore is a mix of a clever lines delivered in a rowdy style and much melodrama. The action is every bit macho and played out with much gusto. And exactly as you'd expect, Rowdy Rathore hasn't an iota of logic to its paper-thin story. So, yes for the fan of masala and Akshay Kumar, it's a package worth every bit of the ticket money. For others like us, it's exactly as you'd expect - a few laughs at the silliness of it all.Amidst the silliness though, you are introduced to Shiva (Akshay Kumar), a petty crook, who doesn't mind letting the world know he is a thief, and hates children; and has no qualms when he thugs his friend. In fact, you are given an example of each to establish his character. And just when you begin to admire the consistency of his character even though he's the 'supposed' hero of the film, you are asked to lose hope of any major character development. For seemingly no rhyme or reason, he chooses to tolerate a child who he's annoyed with rather than have his way. When the lead character is given such shabby treatment, we didn't really think the female lead would be accorded any respect, did we? Not with a title like Rowdy Rathore. While Shiva's lady love, Priya (Sonakshi Sinha) is thrown in and out of the screenplay, as per convenience, Sonakshi herself does little with what her role offers. She lacks grace in the dance and is equally rowdy. However, in this age of Kareena's and Katrinas, her rubenesque proportions are a welcome change. It's a shame then that it looked like they chose to go for a 'waist double' for close-ups of her supposedly slippery waist. That or she breathed out really hard for those close-ups. There is little damage control she could've done in the couple of scenes she is handed down towards the end.Then you have a few villains who thrive on humiliating people - men, women and children alike; weaker the better. Living in the heart of the country, no law applies to them.Amongst many such clichés is rowdiness  that seeps through the comedy, action, romance and sundry predictable emotional moments. And the film starts with melodrama, which doesn't dip right to the end. This consistency makes Rowdy Rathore an 'entertainer' that requires no laws of story-telling, or good film-making. The attempt at symbolism is hilarious because it is expressed too literally - from raping the police to the references to the mythology of Ram and Krishna, everything is spoon-fed.What I did like though is that amid a lot of the violence, child artists were largely protected from being a part of it or even witness to it. But that there are a couple of scenes where children to witness utmost brutality makes me wonder if it was by design or coincidence. But that's a small reward (if it can even be called that!) for seeing Akshay Kumar as Shiva dressed in pinks, reds, oranges, yellows, lime greens and purples. You can only imagine how loud the background score is to go with these bright colors. But I do get it that that's the central theme - loudness. While Rowdy Rathore is certainly not a film I'd recommend, but it has a carved audience of people who aren't going to wait for any such recommendation. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
