
PVR’s initiative to release independent films is turning out to be a boon for filmmakers who find it hard to release their films in today’s day and age because of ‘lack of commercial viability’. Love, Wrinkle-free, directed by debutante Sandeep Mohan, is a film that needed to be released, because it is rare to find a film with such charm and honesty coming out of India today.
Set entirely in Goa, the film is essentially the journey of a married couple, Savio and Annie, going through what can best be described as a mid-life crisis. He wants to follow his inner calling – selling his own brand of innerwear. She wants to prove to herself and the world that she’s still good enough to be a choir singer, even though the choir would rather have younger singers. And their adopted daughter Ruth has identity issues of her own. She can’t come to terms with the fact that she has ‘small eyes’. Along the way, they meet a host of mad characters who, for want of a better word, complicate their story just a little bit more.
This little charmer of a film is driven by its characters and their journey to come to terms with their self-image. The characters are consistently quirky, and their interactions, though not always ‘haha’ funny, are laced with such belief and are so grounded in reality, that they always evoke laughter.
The film is embellished by earnest performances by the entire lead cast. Ash Chandler, playing Savio, is pitch-perfect as the perpetually hassled middle class man looking to make his family proud of him. Shernaz Patel as Annie - the slightly obsessive-compulsive woman is excellent as well. Sohrab Ardeshir as the local Goan don adds that extra madness to the proceedings. Seema Rahmani, playing a spunky tourist who strikes up a bond with Savio, is a natural. Last seen in Sudhish Kamat’s Good Night, Good Morning, she seems to slip into characters that she plays with ease.
What truly makes Love, Wrinkle-free’s  thoroughly entertaining watch is the indie spirit behind the film. There seems to be no wish to conform, no urge to tell a story with a necessary start and end. The film starts somewhere bang in the middle of the characters lives and ends somewhere in the middle as well. You can’t help feel that the story of the characters will continue even after you have walked out of the cinema hall, but the characters and their mad escapades will continue. The core of the film - the underlying theme of identity and image, of one’s looks and the concept of youth - will strike a chord with everyone.
Setting the film in Goa is another factor that adds to the flavor of the film. The attempt isn’t to show Goa the way you would to a tourist. It exists in the background, calm, serene but always there. The earthy colour tone complements the film well. 
At a time where people get away with tripe saying, 'I don't make films for critics', Love, Wrinkle-free comes as a breath of fresh air. This is the kind of film that is bound to make you smile.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Pradeep Menon. Pradeep is a filmmaker and a dreamer. He loves books, rain, winters, tea and his parents. Cinema, however, is the only truth he believes in. He breathes and bleeds film, mostly in hues of saffron, white, green and blue. You can watch his short films at www.youtube.com/cyberpradeep.
    
    
  
