
The only novelty in Yeh Khula Aasmaan is the grandfather-grandson relationship. The rest is a mix of inspiring 'quotable quotes' that are worth what they are worth and the typical underdog sports story. Behind all the emphasis on not pressurizing a child to score academically is a thick layer of pressure to succeed in whatever it is chosen for him. And that didn't at all work for me. However, if there is one take away from Yeh Khula Aasman it is the brilliant performance of Raghuvir Yadav.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Whether or not I agree with what Raghuvir Yadav's character had to do, his performance is warm and endearing. So is debutant Raj Tondon's performance - he comes across as the perfect representative of the confused, diffident, complex age called adolescence. The rest of the cast is actually functional and thus caricaturish. Only these two seem to have real emotions. 
In that sense then, real emotion is what the relationship is about. That I found it far from ideal is a different matter. While Ye Khula Aasmaan looks down upon parents tendency to put their children down as a way to bring a sense of responsibility, it adds the burden of bearing a grandparent's aspirations. This then boils down to a child having to live up to someone or the others' expectations. What good will that do? 
So, what if a simple medium of a kite-fight is used signify this larger thing called life. The metaphor is used beautifully in one song, but beyond that it becomes a bit much and all I could see was the need for Avinash (Raj Tondon) to succeed. 
This brings me to the question, what happens to people who don't succeed? There are people who haven't ever succeeded in anything they did. What happens to them? Or it just might be that there is no story worth making a film out of in there. There are indeed very few 'loser' protagonists who have succeeded as a story in a film. 
I won't say which route Yeh Khula Aasmaan takes, that one you'll figure out as the movie progresses. But, what I can tell you is that Yeh Khula Aasmaan is not a complete loss because of Raghuvir Yadav, Raj Tondon and the chemistry they create. The preachy dialogue worked just a bit because it was within a relationship between a grandfather and his grandson. You could see it fall apart as soon as Avinash's friends began saying lines meant to inspire. 
Yeh Khula Aasman has some lovely, warm, genuine moments of camaraderie between  grandparent and grandchild both because of hard work at writing and an heartfelt performances by the protagonists. Unfortunately, it beats its purpose by doing exactly what it pointed a figure at to start with. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
