
We usually talk about Hindi films in terms of first half and second half. Befikre had me think of it in one-eighths, where the seven-eighth part of the film looked like it could be a film different from what I was expecting it to be. For that bit, with the characters, the film felt as though it was taking a mature look at relationships - especially the romantic kind. But nada. Instead we nosedive with the film to a thud. 

                        the seven-eighth part of the film looked like it could be a film different from what I was [expecting it to be](http://wogma.com/movie/befikre-buzz/ “Befikre preview”)
                    
Befikre, has the now-getting-old theme of lust vs. love vs. friendship. In such films, one overpowers the other two at any given point. But, we more or less, know the direction. It is the situations and the dialogue that have a chance to make the film engaging. The “dare” game in Befikre, which seems to be the source of all bonding between Shyra (Vaani Kapoor) and Dharam (Ranveer Singh) doesn't cut it. The couple then follows the usual pattern in their falling apart. 
There is one difference though. Usually, it is the female lead who is intolerably shrill in such fights, here Ranveer Singh matches Vaani Kapoor note for note. This makes the first five minutes of the film intolerable outright. Other than that though the duo don't annoy again and get back into tolerable zone. They are playing smart, urban characters who are bold about their desires and clear about their needs. It wouldn't be a surprise if the actors are playing their real-life personalities, right? That's why it doesn't sound or look too impressive. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


These characters aren't all black and white. They do seem confused about things that some of us might take for granted like commitment and not hurting other people. They flip-flop between their wants and don't wants. They have way too many change of hearts for us to keep track. We are used to seeing all of this in our films, and some of them we like more than others. Befikre just doesn't entertain or engage and gets outlandish by the end of it all. 
There are lots of Aditya Chopra parallels to be drawn – from the change in role of parents to the shift in focus of romance to the changing nature of love over these last three decades. But, it feels as if, in his effort to be “free from his own cinematic traps”, he hasn't been able to wriggle out too far. The changes seems a little too perfunctory rather than germane to the story. The only thing that felt relatively relevant in the story is that the protagonists have “new-age”, cool-ish jobs that kind-a sort-a get in the way of their relationship. I guess that the woman has a job is new-age enough for us. Never mind. 



That the storyteller in him had to adopt a non-linear style of narration gives away the fact that he wasn't too sure about holding the viewers' attention with the story as is. And of course, it seems like no one can help self-referencing these days. 
That aside, none of the supposedly “aawwww” moments reach out. None of the supposedly “crazy” moments feel crazy enough or real. There are only so many times that we can believe a person getting away with offending the authorities in France (or anywhere for that matter). There are only so many times we can see the whole world revolve around the lead pair - which is no more restricted to background dancers in songs. 

                        I guess that the woman has a job is new-age enough for us. Never mind.
                    
The biggest put-off is that grown-ups behave like juveniles when in love. They behave as if they've never heard of age-old problems like toilet seats and wet towels. Makes you wonder if the writers have experienced real life, real relationships – those outside the movie world. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
