
Love stories with characters belonging to rival families have something intrinsically tragic about them. Sometimes the pathos is overwhelming enough to make you ignore everything else that's wrong with the story. At other times though, it could be an Ishaqzaade which isn't sure about how it wants the audience to react to its characters and thus comes across as confused. Add to that a stretched out, predictable  climax and you have an uneasy, restless audience.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The first scene introduces Parmar (Arjun Kapoor) as a ruthless, uncouth brat who the audience will very unwillingly call an anti-hero, let alone hero. And no, right to the end, you cannot warm up to his character; empathizing or rooting for his cause is a distant thought. But that also says two things complimentary about the content - Parmar does nothing out of character and is consistent; Arjun Kapoor plays Parmar to perfection because the feeling of disgust towards the character never leaves you. 
Exactly the same things can be said about Zoya and Parineeti Chopra the actor who plays Zoya. Zoya is consistently immature and ironically feminine as far as emotion goes, behind all the macho bravado.  In fact, Zoya is likable despite this inconsistency because life is a thrill ride for her and death is equally adventurous too. This charm seeps through and that has a lot to do with Parineeti Chopra's refreshing attitude towards being a lead lady in a Hindi film. 
Unfortunate as it is, none of this translates into a story that can sustain your interest for over two hours. Ishaqzaade reminded me that "predicable" doesn't just mean the audience guessing exactly what will happen. A story is predicable and a tad more frustratingly so, when the audience guesses two (or more) possible outcomes of a particular situation and both (or all) seem equally done to death. 
You could do all of this in style have good camera work and sense of aesthetics but the lack of content is transparent. The dialogues lack the charm of Habib Faisal's debut Do Dooni Chaar. The references - to a woman's place in Indian society, be it a strong-headed girl or a righteous widow, and similar impotence of a man who does whatever it takes because he seeks approval of his role model - are very interesting but do little to how lame the plot is as it culminates. Social message at the end, notwithstanding.
A love story is a love story is a love story. And actually, we expect very little from it, in terms of being different. What we want is to engage with our Romeos  and Juliets, we want to feel that a Majnu should unite with his Laila, in this world or beyond. But in Ishaqzaade, you aren't even sure Ranjha deserves Heer. Amidst the endless gun shots, you are hoping for a gun or two to go with the cliche and run out of bullets, so there is some sight of 'The End'.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
