
In absolute terms Jumbo, the baby elephant will keep kids good company. But relatively speaking it doesn’t have the zing of The Lion King or the wit and sensitivity of Finding Nemo, two movies the plot seems to have tried to combine.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


On the look for his missing father, Jumbo loses his way and is torn apart from his mother too. What more can a child identify with? Separation from parents - the biggest fear and the most traumatic nightmare imaginable. Going ahead too, the plot is not treated with kid gloves. It stays pretty close to dark. That makes it a kids’ movie that respects the target audience’s intelligence even if the subtlety is not noticed by them.
And yet they need the fun and energy, which I think is missing. That kids might not miss it at all, is a completely different matter. The story doesn’t have anything new, but then kids love repetition. And hey, it is, in fact better than the alternatives produced in recent times. So, it all depends on what you are comparing it too. There are enough on either side of the scale and Jumbo stands pretty much in the middle. 
Same goes for the animation, it wasn’t entirely appealing. Elephants with long legs, wide eyes, and out of proportion trunks were not pleasing to watch, even if it was only for 90 minutes. Same goes for other animals sketched out. I liked the concept of elephants in multiple colors though. A comment on how the species stays united despite the variation in skin color?
In my mind voices of characters are done well, if I have to try hard to recognize the voice - it seems familiar but I cant spot it because of the modulation. So, when a Gulshan Grover does a Gulshan Grover and Rajpal Yadav and Asrani too play themselves, I find it mundane if not annoying. On the other hand despite the tremendous publicity Akshay Kumar and Dimple Kapadia got, they sounded like supposedly-cute elephants would if they could speak. Their inflections sounded convincing.
On the Hindi animation scene for kids, there isn’t much happening - especially non-mythological. In that sense, it is good to have Jumbo dubbed with the right amount of star value. But otherwise, there isn’t anything remarkably different about the story or the animation.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
