
What is it that makes Vishesh Films name its films to make them sound like sequels? Murder 2 earlier and now Jannat 2 have nothing to do with the films with the same names but for the number attached at the end. Is it that the producers are trying to bank on the success of the earlier films to get in the initial crowd? Is it lack of creativity? Is it pure laziness? Or is it mere disinterest? The same disinterest that shows through the film by the actors and the director.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Of the entire team, only the writer seems to show interest right through the end of his assignment. Sonu Dilli (Emraan Hashmi), a small-time gun-dealer finds himself stuck between a cop (Randeep Hooda) who forces Sonu to turn into an informer; his willingness to live an honest living for the love of his life (Esha Gupta); and the bigger-time dons of the underworld (Manish Choudhary). A dilemma that could've been so much more engaging but for some awful performances and a tedious screenplay. 
Similarly, the dialogues are some of the most inane ones. The kind that actors should have objection to saying out loud, however inept they might be at their work. No, I'm not referring to perfunctorily used profanity Except for Emraan Hashmi, the rest of the cast is rather monotonous, each one seems to take to one expression and hold to it. This fact is more so evident in the cases of Randeep Hooda, Esha Gupta and Manish Choudhary. Anyway, as usual, the lead lady is made irrelevant in a crime saga. 
Despite all of this, I'd consider the climax one of the bravest ones in recent times. It is surprisingly unexpected for an otherwise predictable story. It is also an interesting one in terms of what it means to the various characters, even if they aren't written with too much depth. Yet, it can't take away from the fact that it is 'too little, and a little too late'. 
Jannat 2 is another one of those standard crime romances to come out of the Bhatt stable -  only less engaging than the average Vishesh Films' product.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
