
"Do appearances matter?" Should they? This is the question Rajat Kapoor and Co try to answer with Fatso! Only that it would look too plain as is, and thus is masked with an interesting philosophical "what if?" What if you died by mistake? And the death-givers wanted to rectify their error in a controversial manner. It sound funny, but unfortunately Fatso isn't funny and neither does it take the philosophical inferences too seriously. So, it's neither entertaining nor engaging. It just stays something that could be.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Yet, the performances work big time for Fatso. Be it Ranvir Shorey in the title role or the always affable Gul Panag or the charming Purab Kohli. They are the ones that make you sit through. They and the hope that it will all end with a smile on your face. 
Instead mid-way a fear starts creeping in that a film that banks on the emotional ties in the relationships is going to end up like any other romantic film - one in which people fall in love for the sake of convenience rather than growing into it organically. 
There are quite a few issues touched upon, but none of them are delved into more than superficially. From insensitivity of people to an obese person to a friend falling in love with his friend's girlfriend while having a girlfriend of his own - are all cursorily touched upon but not taken too seriously - almost as if the writer/director was scared of making his film too serious. Why have the person be fat and have a title and promo material revolve around the fact, if it isn't even central to the main story? 
Unfortunately, it isn't un-serious either. It hangs somewhere in between. Same goes for how the characters are written. They are all interesting more because you can relate to them, as friends if not yourself. But, you aren't exposed to their vulnerabilities or strengths. You are kept guessing and thus find yourself half-way there. 
Even so, there is something very pleasant about how the camera moves or how the lights are used in a Rajat Kapoor film that make it watchable despite content that isn't quite there. That and an attempt at a topic a little different, even if it's ripped off from here and there, is what makes me look forward to films from this camp of Hindi films. 
The exuberant display of what Fatso! loves life for is symbolic of the film itself. Starts off delightfully, but sticks to the idea for so long without coming to the point that you can predict the point and exactly how it's going to happen too. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
