
Tezz makes your brain go numb - with loud action sequences that accompany shoddy VFX, with its inane dialogue, with content that is mind-bogglingly dim-witted. An illegal immigrant gets so offended for being thrown out of UK that he comes back to threaten, takes along other illegal immigrants  to blow a couple of trains off and make demands of the government!? And the hope is that the his backstory is going to make the audience see the justification behind the actions of this "anti-hero"?! 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even if a part of the audience, like me, thinks of Aakash Rana (Ajay Devgan) more as a villain than an anti-hero, he's not loathsome enough to make Tezz watchable. And it is a huge disappointment in that villains who aren't absolutely nasty have such potential to make interesting characters. But here, Aakash seems as misguided as the writers, assuming there were writers involved in this project.
Yep! Beginning to complain about the plot holes implies that there was a coherent plot. All I know is, if I start filling in the 'didn't work' section of the notepad in the opening sequence of a film, the next two hours are pretty much written off. While the film is more or less one chase sequence after the other - some of them well-choreographed, others interrupted by childish graphics and special effects - you wish text on screen said 'The End' when it reads 'Interval'. 
None of the main characters have roles that require too much emoting or even speaking - the latter is a good thing. Especially, when the potential speakers are the likes of Kangna Ranaut who made me cringe at her diction even for the two lines that she had. Actually both, she and Sameera Reddy, can barely be called "lead" characters. Of the lot, in fact Boman Irani followed by Anil Kapoor get some screen space that allows for at least some expressions. But, then they have such awful lines, that you wish they hadn't taken this film in the first place. 
Then you have the songs that are as out of place even if someone somewhere tried to justify it with some convoluted reason. Mallika Sherawat's 'laila' must be one of the worst choreographed and picturised item numbers of recent times. 
Tezz gives a weird sense of disappointment - the kind that you get even when you weren't expecting anything half-decent to begin with.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
