
If we are lucky enough to have a potential Hrishikesh Mukherjee amongst us, it would have to be Shoojit Sircar. Vicky Donor made me laugh, brought a tear to my eye, made me think, and it made me care about its characters - all in a setting we could accept as real-life. And it's not like the film doesn't have a good share of quirky characters (We have a whisky drinking granny, for goodness' sake!) but their quirks are made to look like they could easily belong to a neighbor's family, if not your own. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For a subject as taboo and giggle-inducing as 'sperm donation', Vicky Donor does an awesome job of making it so regular even though the terms thrown at you are on-the-face. Each time Anu Kapoor says 'sperm' with a hand-gesture it makes you laugh out loud, right till the end. That's how good his comic timing is - that a signature phrase and symbol assigned to a character makes you laugh despite the repetition. Also, that's how good the writing is - because the time passed between two repetitions is just right and the things that come between them is either hilarious or entertaining, if not both. 
Yes, there is some non-hilarious entertainment. The drama and the romance are both engaging. After a really long time, I didn't have any problem believing a couple when they said they loved each other. Otherwise, either it is said too early, or one is blind to the other's love, or it is too mushy, or the lines are ridiculously shallow. Vicky Donor gets the romance 'Goldilocks' perfect.
Same goes for the drama. This coming from a member of the audience who thinks she's has had just about enough of loud Punjabi characters and dialogue thrown at her. Beeji (Kamlesh Gill), Dolly (Dolly Ahluwalia) and the daughter-in-law-mother-in-law chemistry between them isn't something we are going to forget in a hurry and yet will want to revisit them every once in a while. 
I like Ayushman Khurana - even beyond his dimples. He has an easy-going screen presence that any actor should be proud of. His easy-go-lucky Punjabi munda mannerism is so casual that it is difficult to imagine him as any other character. I guess we'll have to wait for his next for that. Yami Gautam has a sweet charm that makes you reach out to the sadness within her when she's smiling, comfort her when she's obviously sad and identify with her PMS-ing shrill yelling when she's angry. 
Each character has depth and warmth - even the pushy Dr. Chaddha (Anu Kapoor) and his alter ego in the form of his assistant. Ashima's (Yami Gautam) dad and aunt add their own flavor to the mix - especially the scenes written between father and daughter. The extent to a dad can go to convince his daughter of anything - from choice of husband to how she's being silly in being upset with her husband - might seem outlandish, but we've all seen or heard of similar stuff in real-life.
The screenplay is intriguing too. It is rather obviously episodic, it has five clear parts. The first which is covered in the promos where Dr. Chaddha is trying to convince Vicky to donate his sperm. Then you have Vicky wooing Ashima followed by an amazingly witty coverage of inter-caste marriage - a subject covered to death by Hindi cinema. The second half sombers up to cover more serious issues and the entire do has a clean albeit slightly mushy wrap-up. And in the midst of all this, you have a social message that never becomes preachy and will thus be effective, when a family faces an issue like this. 
After walking out of the theater, the superficial thoughts are that of having had fun for the last two hours, of having watched a good film. But half an hour later, when you have processed the film as a whole, I realized I liked it even more than I thought. And it is primarily because of this - Vicky Donor has so many elements that I thought I've had enough of and would've very grudgingly given benefit of doubt to any filmmaker or writer to cover even one of them with any freshness. But boy-meets-girl, Punjabi madness, repetitive dialogue/phrases, caste-based family issues, post-marital woes and recovery from them - Vicky Donor covers them all with a smile on its face and mine. It could be because it has a novel concept to tie this all in. Who would've thought that could happen?



*



wogma and Bollywood and Fashion present the Vicky Donor contest. Tell us how you'd react if you are told that your friend is a Vicky donor and win filmy t-shirts!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
