
Isn't it a shame that a woman has been so wronged by such an obnoxious man and I feel bad for her only conceptually? Only my imagination of what it must have been like evokes any kind of emotion out of me? And this is in the first half hour of the film. My exasperation only gets worse as the Hate Story progresses.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In the entire film, there are only two things that are just about okay. One is Gulshan Devaiya's stammer and the other is the attempt at making the story a business-mind game. But these are barely things that I can call that 'work' or 'are going for the film'. They just happen to be there for me to be able to say at least a few things nice about the film. Okay fine, Nikhil Dwivedi broods just about right. 
Talking about Paoli Dam's performance would involve recalling her whispering and sighing in attempt to seduce, which I'm trying my best to resist. And..."ha ha ha ha ha ha" this is a ROFL at those who went in expecting sizzling, explicit sex based on the promos. Little do they know they've seen all there is to see in the trailer itself. In fact,  the uncensored version of the trailer has even a little more than the film. And another, "ha ha ha ha ha ha" at me - for wondering, even for the slightest moment, if Hate Story would finally be the Hindi film that shows two people can be comfortable with their bodies and themselves while having sex. 
Now, the whole idea behind having the lead lady turn into a top-notch call-girl is obviously to be able to market the film. Then, I am giving it too much benefit of doubt by thinking, "Sure they didn't tell me exactly why she HAD to turn into a prostitute, but maybe it was the easiest way for her to get what she wanted." 
One thing Hate Story does a god job of, is to expose the fragility of the male ego. One male after another falls for this woman whose focus is only her revenge and not one relents even after they know the truth about her. But then again, you don't need to see a movie for that, do you? runs for shelter 
Oh, the other selling point in the trailer seemed to be the free use of cuss words. Character after character uses the f-word more awkwardly than 12-year olds who use that language. 
Unfortunately, everything in Hate Story sounds and looks contrived with the sole motivation of getting the audience to the theater - by hook or crook. And it doesn't quite work.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
