
I have a nasty reputation of crying at the drop of a hat during sentimental movies. My theory is it all started with my first viewing of Titanic, in 1997. I was a child, unaware of the tragedy of the film. I barely connected with Rose or Jack as an 8 year old, but I cried at every remotely emotional moment, by virtue of the overwhelming feeling that Titanic imparts with. Nearly 15 years later, as a 23 year old, I still cried the same amount after watching Titantic in 3D. I still felt the same rush of emotions through the film: anticipation, heart fluttering and mush even though I tried to fight it. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I’ll admit I was expecting to be blown away by the 3D technology, especially in the last half hour of the film, but it merely remained a subtle layer of the film. However, of all the films that are being shot/projected in 3D, Titanic seemed the most logical choice - mostly because of the grandeur of the film. The use of 3D doesn’t make you cringe at any point, or make you feel like it was a waste of an alteration or your money. The 3D holds your gaze – when the piles of delicate plates fall off the rack, when each compartment gets flooded with water - you feel a lot closer to the on-screen happenings.  By virtue of that, Titanic in 3D is worth watching on the big screen. 
For those of you who have forgotten what the film is about, it’s a revisit to the 1912 tragedy of Titanic. After been hit by an iceberg in the wee hours of the morning, the “unsinkable” ship Titanic sunk to bottom of the ocean taking with it close to 1500 people. James Cameron’s Titanic portrays the love between young Rose and Jack Dawson who meet on the ship. Theirs is a clandestine affair, as they belong to different social backgrounds. Rose is aristocratic, and has a fiancé. Her life is already decided for her at the age of 17. She meets Jack, a vagabond artist who changes her perception of life. 
Its puppy love at its best – also some of our first ever memories of love seen on the big screen (atleast my generation). Along with Celine Dion’s 'My Heart Will Go On', the entire package became sort of an anthem of love for us. I remembered telling myself as a 10 year old that I want to marry someone like Jack. Surprisingly, when I saw the film again this time, I was still that 10-year-old girl. That’s the beauty of Titanic. It wraps you in its story and doesn’t let you age for the 3 and a half hours that it runs. 
Titanic is not a film – it’s a timeless pop-cultural reference for every movie lover. No matter how much we talk about it, there will still be more to discuss and reminisce. Nobody dare called it melodramatic when it was released – and I’m sure the last on your mind when you watch it on the big screen will be melodrama. Sure, the visuals and background music are grand, but a small part of you sinks with the Titanic. It’s a part that will continuously haunt you every time you watch the film, and James Cameron has banked on that emotion with a re-release of the film. 
Watch Titanic in 3D for every reason you watched it the first time around, and every time it glued you when it came on TV. You might not feel anything new, but you will walk out with a warm feeling in your heart. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Swetha Ramakrishnan. Swetha Ramakrishnan is currently living and working in Mumbai. She's a self-confessed film enthusiast and can most likely be found talking to anyone and everyone about popular cinema and her love for SRK. 
    
      Swetha Ramakrishnan also blogs at http://swetharamakrishnan.blogspot.com/.
    
    
  
