
Movies with a social message either seem like the social message is squeezed into a story that the writers had in mind or the other way around. With Force 2 you can't make out which came first. I wish I could say that it meant the social message flowed seamlessly in and out of the story. Nope, the non-existent story comes about towards the fag end of the film. Till then it is only one chase sequence after another.

                        I guess we can take this as an encouraging trend – the lady's character in an action film is a sidekick rather than the usual pretty prop.
                    
If only the chase sequences had anything novel about them. It seemed like we have an action film, we have Budapest with all its beautiful roof-tops, so how can we not have a rooftop chase sequence. With an exception or two, there is no creativity in the other action sequences too. 
The thriller story is more or less a non-story. The villains intentions and motivations aren't something that hook us any more, are they? Sure, at least the villain here is two steps ahead of the hero so we are to wonder what he has up his sleeve. But, it never reaches a crescendo where you can't wait to find out or be bothered if you don't. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For all the talk of  “why are you surprised to find a woman at the job?” talk, RAW agent KK (Sonakshi Sinha) is always a few steps behind Yash (John Abraham) – both physically and mentally. Sure, it might have more to do with KK being a sidekick and not have anything to do with gender. I guess we can take this as an encouraging trend – the lady's character in an action film is a sidekick rather than the usual pretty prop.
John Abraham, Sonakshi Sinha and Tahir Raj Bhasin aren't really required to have too many expressions – they grimace, stay confused and smirk respectively. 
For an action film, Force 2 doesn't have any thrill. It is rather plain despite the pounding background score and snappy editing that goes with the genre. Or maybe it is a plain thriller because it has the usual things you expect from the genre. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
