
Chaar Din Ki Chandni is one of the films that make you wonder 'Why did they bother?' or at least 'Why did you bother watching it?' Exasperating and as repeatedly pointed out by Anupam Kher's character - loud and garish - Chaar Din Ki Chandni gets on your nerves almost from the moment the director introduces himself as the narrator, that is scene 1.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And loud and garish pretty much describes each character and the over-the-top performance each actor uses to demonstrate the particular idiosyncrasy assigned to their character. From Anupam Kher, Om Puri, and Farida Jalal to Sushant Singh, Chandrachur Singh, Mukul Dev and Rahul Singh. 
The few exceptions are Anita Raj, Tusshar Kapoor, Kulraj Randhwa and surprisingly Johnny Lever. That doesn't mean Johnny Lever isn't loud, it just means his earsplitting voice is at least justifiable considering what his character has faced. Similarly, Tusshar Kapoor's non-loudness is only relative. And he is mildly amusing when he dons the avatar of a sardar. 
That just leaves Anita Raj and Kulraj Randhwa who are the only respite from this otherwise insufferable thing masquerading around as a film. 
The story is the ages-old one about family not approving of a partner that their son has fallen in love with. The sub-plots are contrived and stretched beyond tolerable; and kills the joke in the couple of times there could've been a decent one. Mistaken identities, blatant cover-ups, and a hundred white lies later the plot is so convoluted that you are left with no emotion to attach to the characters or the plot. What with every man in the disapproving family falling for the disapproved woman - head over heels and vulgar in turns - à la but nothing like Hrishikesh Mukherjee's Naram Garam. She of course, is brilliant at exactly the same thing that each of the four men are interested in - guns, alcohol, whatever say you. The exuberant, all-knowing woman that she is. 
I wonder if the latest courses in story-writing and acting have a separate chapter on the ever-spirited, boisterous yet cultured charmer of a woman that our films invariably have these days. 
Whether or not they have that, they surely don't have a chapter on thinking long and hard about the name you give your film. The Hindi phrase Chaar Din Ki Chandni is the first part of Chaar Din Ki Chandni, phir andheri raat which translates to 'Four days' of good times (moonlit nights), and then ensues darkness'; very much like the phrase '9 days' wonder'. The lead character is called Chandni, certainly they didn't mean what the title implies for their lead character. Or is this one of those clear cases of viewer spending more time reading into the script than the makers spent on reading it? 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
