
Every other line that Shekhar (Aditya Seal) says has the word “life” in it. That is how much he philosophizes. Okay fine, I might be exaggerating a tad bit. But what could have been insightful, instead incites eyerolls. 

                        the film is all about romance and remorse – intense emotions neither of which unfortunately touch a chord.
                    
You have to give it to Tum Bin 2 for having two equally decent human beings as contenders for the lady in the love triangle. Else, it would have been very easy for the audience to have someone to root for. Unfortunately, this opportunity to engage is lost by a dull implementation of the concept. 
That aside, the most chemistry you see is that between two mourning people - a would be daughter-in-law and father-in-law. And this is supposed to be a romantic film. This is interesting considering that the characters are saying all the right things when they talk about romance. So in that sense some of the dialogue is good. But, it doesn't leave an impact.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is not like the performances are awful. Sure, they aren't the greatest but they aren't the kind that you usually get in films with this budget and this style of execution. Aditya Seal and Neha Sharma actually emote aptly. While the same cannot be said about Aashim Gulati, the rest of the supporting cast do well to keep things real. 
Given that the various departments of film are just about average but not below average, the culprit in pulling it down might as well be the pace. With a song at every turn, even if it is running in the background and not lip-synced, the film is quite slow. 



And of course, to make matters worse it is predictable. In fact, so much so that I placed a bet with myself – I will up the rating a notch if the interval point doesn't come where I think it will. This was 20 minutes into the film about an hour away from interval. I won. And just in case you are wondering, no I didn't have to change the rating. 
Of course, we shouldn't be waiting for the unexpected when the makers seem to have understood the word “sequel” as same-ish story with a different setting rather than “what comes next”. For an almost repeat show, the film is all about romance and remorse – intense emotions neither of which unfortunately touch a chord. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
