
I was rather wary of watching the fifth rom-com/romance  in four weeks. Images of Ali Zafar from Mere Brother Ki Dulhan didn't help. So, you can imagine my surprise when I started being drawn to the characters and involved in their stories within the first ten minutes or so. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The cute lines, the casual build-up and the performances keep you engaged and smiling throughout. When Ali Zafar doesn't do the sigh-in-mouth dialogue delivery, he is quite the charmer. You'd fall in love with Nikhil, the character he plays, for just the way he looks at Lalitha. You don't need anything else to convince you how much he is in love with her, even when she's questioning it. His disappointment reaches out to you whenever you, with him, think that he can't have her.
For now, Aditi Rao Hydari, didn't need to do anything other than just be there for me to not take my eyes off hers. Her eyes emote genuine warmth, and more generally her persona is captivating. That besides she carried both the regular girl-next-door, disheveled-hair look and the sizzling Parisian style with equal ease.
And there is nothing more to London Paris New York. Just Nikhil and Lalitha. The usual cinematography of these cities have ceased to impress me to the extent that I might not be in awe of the Eiffel Tower/Statue of Liberty or the London bridge when I see them the next time. 
Nikhil and Lalitha though, being shown their way by Ali Zafar and Aditi Rao Hydari are delightful. Their chemistry is riveting and goes beyond every time they come within a foot's distance of each other. Even otherwise, it was fun watching them hold the mirror to each other's shortcomings. Made them very human and relatable.
It's only a bummer then, that they chose the regular route to end the film - long-winded, unimaginative, disappointing and thus unforgivable. When the film broke for half-time, I could hear surprised sounds from the audience, many of us didn't realize how 45-50 minutes of the film had passed by. Even post-interval there were some well-composed sequences that made me worry about how little time the film had to wrap itself up. That is ALWAYS a sign of a film made well. Thus far.
No matter how many films I see suffer from the first-half-second-half syndrome, often after seeing a good first half, I find myself forgetting at interval that it could still go downhill. The last ten or so minutes of London Paris New York rudely reminded me of that common pitfall. But thankfully, the film is short enough that the good parts are impactful enough to overcome a part of the disastrous last ten minutes.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
