
Paan Singh Tomaris the angst of an athlete who did the right thing and tried his best to work within the system to get justice for himself and his family. But then he was pushed. Pushed beyond his limits. And then he turned into a revolutionary, what we call a dacoit. The irony, that he got more recognition as a dacoit than a sportsperson representing his country in international events, never stopped to boggle him. Does it bother us though? Then, why hasn't the situation changed in the last 40-50 years?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even now, the plight wouldn't have reached us if it were not for Irrfan Khan who plays Paan Singh Tomar. He completely bowls us over with his simplicity and then, frustrated aggression. Moreover, after Paan Singh turns into a dacoit rebel, the pride of a military personnel and a national-level sportsperson never leaves his eyes. He is very rooted in his cause and yet reminds you where his heart lies, time and again. 
Mahie Gill provides wonderful support by showing us why she is Paan Singh's vulnerability. And this must be that rare film when a character who plays a prominent part in the first half of the film disappears later and the disappearance seems justified. Paan Singh had to forgo his family life including his wife, after all.
Paan Singh Tomar invokes your curiosity by exposing the rebel Paan Singh before telling us about how he was as a sportsperson. That created just the right amount intrigue because as the flashback progressed you wanted to know how this simple, straightforward person took to becoming a dacoit. 
Paan Singh's achievements as an athlete is shown in good detail and so is his transformation into a person who had to take the law in his hands. The part where he becomes feared and successful as a dacoit is sorely missing. And that according to me is the film's biggest letdown. The meek and largely submissive Paan Singh suddenly becomes a dreaded outlaw and we are asked to take that as a given. 
And despite this major gap in the writing, Paan Singh Tomar is commendable and recommended watch because of the issue it tries to address. If there is one thing about sports in our nation that needs dire attention, it is the condition of and apathy towards our non-cricketing sportspeople.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
