
The moment characters in a film begin reacting to everything by yelling at the top of their voices, I'm put off. Invariably, there is insistent background music as accompaniment too. Tere Naal Love Ho Gaya hits that nail on the spot. That besides, there is nothing much going for it in terms of story or logic.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Well, there is nothing logical about a strong-headed woman who has her own mind and knows what she wants not being able to avoid marriage till she finds the right guy. At that very basic level, Tere Naal Love Ho Gaya fails. But, I guess, you could give it to them, at what they were trying to do by the end. It's miraculous how the entire film seems to revolve around Minnie (Genelia D'Souza (Deshmukh(?))) and yet it ultimately is up to the man of the film, Viren (Riteish Deshmukh) to show who wears the pants. 
Of course, the climax is something we should have given up on, after the first time it was used in a film. But, oh well, all is fair in love, war and Bolly-com - is what the audience has to come to terms with. 
The only thing going for the film then, is the lead pair - Riteish Deshmukh and Genelia D'Souza. Genelia D'Souza is no doubt very pretty and one could just alternate between her glinting eyes and charming smile for a couple of hours. You'd enjoy it even more if you are not distracted by her exaggerated hand-gestures and shrill voice, like me. And if you actually like that kind of body language and dialogue delivery, I wouldn't even venture into how much it'd mean to you. But, I tire easily of over-enthusiastic characters, in real life too, and we've seen too much of those in recent times, anyway. 
Riteish Deshmukh on the other hand plays the perfect lad-in-distress - helpless, clueless yet surprisingly sure of what he wants in life. Yet, many a time, you just want him to act normal and see if that works for you. The rest of the cast is a loud bunch, which is why the 2-3 glimpses of subtle understanding that you see from Om Puri come as a surprise. They remind you of what he is capable of. 
Unfortunately, Tere Naal Love Ho Gaya is so caught up in being exuberant and funny that it does injustice to the 'message' that it wants to send. Even so, when the underlying motivation does come across, it is a pleasant surprise and you wish you had more. 
That was my problem with Tere Naal Love Ho Gaya. It tried too hard to keep that smile on my face. Fine, I did enjoy a few moments, but then there were others that got annoying. And, anyway, ultimately the boy-meets-girl story had no other meat in it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
