
In stories where the common man is wronged, I've always wondered, why no one tries anything other than the common man's frustration with the system getting to him near interval or a little later? What if he succumbed to corruption, power-goons , etc throughout the film - because that would actually be close to reality, right? Common man is a common man, no Singham or even Dr. Anand? Besides, I had begun to get a tad bored with the typical improbable and pseudo-inspiration, notwithstanding the few well-made ones. The answer is a Gali Gali Chor Hai. If you don't have the inspiring lead character, you'll supposedly need loud side characters, a haywire plot that attempts satire, and a more-or-less boring story despite a decent central idea. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Bharat (Akshaye Khanna) is the common man in question, who crosses a goon-of-a-politician to get stuck in a rigmarole, that starts with a threat from a police constable that he'll be taken into custody, because a thief reported that he stole a table fan from Bharat's house. Yes, you read that right. Just in case, you didn't see subtlety being thrown out of the window with the name Bharat, you will see irrelevant, loud and tacky characters do the do. Not to mention the three 'Of course's and one 'what the...!?' I could've put in that one-line synopsis. 
Gali Gali Chor Hai is just that kind of a film. Exaggeration under the guise of satire is used to make a point and beats the purpose by distracting from the point itself. Sure, some of my sentiments as this country's common woman are echoed, but the impact is short-lived. And there is the obvious, in-your-face parallel with the Ram Leela sequences, but again the manner in which they are edited into the main story mar the effectiveness. 
The side-story of Bharat, his suspicious wife, Nisha (Shriya Saran) and their paying guest, Amita (Mugdha Godse) are as distracting as the over-acting by most of the cast is. What was the purpose of this diversion from the main story? - is an entirely different question. My only guess is that they were trying to run a parallel between the ironies of how national and domestic systems run. Yes, I laughed at  my thought and am giving you a chance too. 
The gamut of other bit roles performed by Annu Kapoor, Vijay Raaz, Satish Kaushik, Akhilendra Mishra, Murli Mishra and Amit Mistry all have potential to be interesting but stay half-exposed. Throw in the mandatory item number, love song and one on social activism with no real rhyme or reason and you have a perfectly ignorable film. Tch! 
I do feel like applauding what director, Rumy Jaffery and writer, Mumukshu Mudgal have tried here. It is indeed courageous to have central character that surrenders more easily than he combats. But, everything other than that is a little too overbearing and takes improbability and pseudo-inspiration associated with common man stories to the other extreme. Gali Gali Chor Hai made me prefer the other kind of fake.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
