
One of the first few lines in Ghost go, "I'm a doctor. I have to behave responsibly, right?" And this along with the typical texture that goes with a B-grade horror film, seal the deal as far as how good the film is going to be. And the case gives itself little chance to be re-opened.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The little chance is afforded by the way in which spooks are created the first couple of times. Slimy insects and hardcore gore begin to do the do only to be rudely interrupted by special effects that make the images look like they are shot with a thermographic camera of some sort. I'm all game for filmmakers experimenting with techniques, but unfortunately this looked like a cop-out - a method in which they could avoid showing the implied gore. Or use of this technology was more feasible than the refined prosthetics skills that would be needed to pull it off. 
That could've made the film better in terms of number of genuine creeps provided. Unfortunately, the creeps come from cheesy dialogues in romantic situations like, "Why are you so beautiful, Suhani?" or "I'll not forget you till I forget myself." Incidentally, this is supposed to be a break from the 'intense' horror situations and thus the love affair is rhythmically interspersed with the core of the Ghost story. 
Usually this genre leave enough opportunities for the actors to scream, squeal and thus show their acting prowess. But Ghost's story doesn't have room for that because the lead pair barely every faces the spirit that's causing terror. Our man Shiney Ahuja has one break-down but that's about it. Sayali Bhagat has a few sequences to give a moderately scared expression and she quite firmly holds that one through most scenes - including the romance. Shiney Ahuja here.> 
Speaking of jokes, usually horror movies are associated with two kinds of laughter from the audience. One is kind that is at the film for trying to scare and the other is nervous laughter that comes right after a stand-alone spine-chilling scene. Ghost gives neither. 
It tries its bit of Christian symbolism with a character named Mary and frogs and locust-like insects, but the pace is so slow in many of the non-horror sequences that I could hardly be bothered to make sense of them. 
The only silver lining in this entire gamut of things that go wrong with Ghost is that it is directed by a woman. I don't think there are too many women have directed horror films. For what it's worth that needs to be applauded. And yet, I cannot recommend you to watch it even if you had nothing better to do. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
