
I love the Himalayas. I came back from a grueling trek in the Himalayan ranges a few months ago. One of the first lines Shivaay (Ajay Devgn) speaks resonated with my longing for the mountains. I identified with him when he said he can't leave the mountains. And that was the last thing likeable about the film. This is despite my admiration for Ajay Devgn's goofy, gloomy look. 

                        The main purpose of the film then seems to be what it started as – a showreel for all people involved.
                    
You can't watch a 3-hour long film for the mountains or that suave look, right? I'd rather watch a documentary on the Himalayas and have an Ajay Devgn poster to peek at, if I have to. Other than these two things, Shivaay is one long chase sequence. The story shuttles between it being a struggle for Shivaay to keep his daughter with him, a hunt for her when she is kidnapped and human-trafficking. 
The social cause seems like an afterthought. The story setup that gets Shivaay to Bulgaria seems too elaborate.  He could've just been any father looking for his daughter. Why the romantic track and the weird situation? It almost seems back-calculated to fit the kidnapping. And to make the film longer.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The main purpose of the film then seems to be what it started as – a showreel for all people involved, the action choreographer, the cinematographer, the special effects team, the music department. And it would be one for Ajay Devgn's “I am so cool” look, if only it needed one. 
Abigail Eames, who plays Gaura, Shivaay's daughter is the only one who seems to have put her heart and soul into her act. Ajay Devgn sleepwalks through this one. Sayyeshaa and Erika Kaar are both stiff and awkward. Of course, it doesn't help that the latter has to speak Hindi. 



For an action film, there is nothing novel about the fight/chase sequences either. Except that they go on and on and on. This movie certainly did not need to be a minute over the 120-minute mark. In addition, you have predictable situations and tacky dialogue. The one thing I did not expect though, is the gratuitous sudden addition of a woman-in-a-tub song.
Shivaay comes across as a film that wants to be more than a regular action film. It doesn't quite achieve anything there. On the other hand, it loses out on being an out and out crowd-pleasing action film too. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
