
"Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned." But a woman is a woman after all. These are the two lines you are most likely to read in every other review of Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl. A woman is warm and compassionate but you wrong her, and she is capable of making your life hell. But, she will turn back to her warm and compassionate self at the slightest chance. While this is an over-generalization of course and Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl is guilty as charged, I was slightly charmed by the three women representing the three facets of a today's woman - strength in a man's world; old-school simplicity; superficial & so? - and there is a fourth woman who combines the three. Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl started making its way into my good books because the writer spent time in thinking about his women.  





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But, there is no spark. 
And no, spark doesn't mean adding absolutely irrelevant songs that bump you out of the stories. The strategy might have worked for Yash Raj Films earlier. But then the music was worth listening to and the choreography and colors were worth being shaken in and out of your film.
It's a shame that throughout the first half, I was wondering if a few better known faces for the three women - Dimple, Raina and Saira - would have engaged better. I was thinking about non-top actresses who could've added spunk to the three women's decent performances. They all acted well, but there was something very plain about how their stories came across. It kept bothering me that the stories were interesting, the actors were apt and yet they weren't able to engage me. 
The mostly basic dialogue is to blame. Except for the lines given to Parineeti Chopra, which were funny and completely in-character, the others were pretty much functional. Parineeti Chopra adds value to it by her comic timing. Also, extra credit to Aditi Sharma and Dipannita Sharma for having done well with the dialogue that they had. There is a lot going on in body language and emotive eyes to convey what was not written. 
And yet, I can't shake off the feeling that maybe supporting actors from say Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na  or Wake Up! Sid would have added the spirit that is missing. 
Interestingly, both Ranveer Singh and Anoushka Sharma do nothing new, except maybe show their calendar-photo bodies off. I guess, no one will complain, because nothing major was really being expected from them. Of course, they are two major characters in the film and all that, but you don't come out with a feeling of them being special for the film. In fact, if I hear the twosome utter the word " partner" once more, I might mark that against the film, for lack of originality. 
However, there are a few "different" thoughts in the film. I don't use the word "original" because I'm sure someone somewhere has done it before. But, there are these sly comments on commercialism and hypocrisy that are brought about in a very casually - a comment about how we don't our Rs.30 wine from our Rs.30,000 wine but are willing to gulp it down, if its packaged in a 5-star environment.  
Unfortunately, along with this is the usual problem that goes with any "con" film. Everything works out too easily and the climax is usually a cop-out. Add to that predictability, having to ask whether you were just conned into thinking this was a woman's film?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
