
I'm always looking forward to stories told by new writer/directors and especially when almost the whole team is fresh. The most known faces in DAM 999 are Ashish Vidyarthi, Rajit Kapoor and Linda Arsenio from Kabul Express. But DAM 999 has a very choppy style of narration to thrill you. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


That besides, just about everything else takes away from the sort-of, kind-of novel plot point. I saw the English version, so the accents of the Indian actors seemed very affected - Just like the Hindi of a non-Indian sounds in a Hindi film. I know it’s a difficult call, but watching Megha Burman exaggerate her Ts and Cs when her character is bred in Kerala(?) and is raised by a south Indian played by Rajit Kapoor who goes to great extent to bring on the South Indian language. I'm discussing the accents in such detail because they act as major distractions and don't allow the characters, which might be well written, to grow on you. Also, they take away from the performances. 
Even if I let that go, there is another major nuisance glaring at you. 3D. Why? Not one scene, not a single one required the technology. DAM 999 unnecessarily ended up being two shades darker and made me spend those extra Rs.30 on the deposit for the glasses. Every once in a while I took the glasses off and the picture was crystal clear - which means it was actually 2D in play. What a scam, I tell you! And certainly a put-off. 
The commentary at the beginning of the film alludes to the fact that the story is going to use the 'navarasa' to express various characters. Also, there is some mumbo-jumbo about the nine planets being the forces behind all life. And some other forced use of the number nine to justify the 999 in the title. 
The story has nothing more to it than a politician controlling everything around him to achieve his political aspirations. The rest, including the entire set-up on the ship, are side-stories that aimed at covering the 999 mentioned above.
DAM 999 most certainly took on its plate a lot more than it could chew. 3D, navarasa, 9 planets, 4 languages, politics, social impact of dams, to name a few. The result is a combination of bland actors trying too hard to play out a plot that is all over the place.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
