
Despite very low, if not nil or negative, expectations from Desi Boyz, I had this latent hope that the theme of "male escorts" will explore the sexual needs of women - a topic almost untouched in the Hindi film industry. Yes, yes, yes, I'm having a hearty laugh at myself for having this thought even in my subconscious. The joke on me is even bigger considering that the choice of Akshay Kumar should've killed any such hidden wishes. Anyway, that notwithstanding, I did enjoy the few hearty laughs that Desi Boyz gave me and I do concede that it manages to be the "no brains please" entertainer that it aims to be.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Yet, I cannot keep my heart from breaking at the complete disregard for story and the lousy attempt at having a conflict. There is no peak at which I wonder or care about what's going to happen to Nik (John Abraham) or Jerry (Akshay Kumar). They fight as easily as they make up, amongst themselves, or with their girlfriends. Events occur just because they "should" occur rather than flowing organically from one to another. 
Add to this an unnecessary love guru in the form of Anupam Kher with banal dialogue and scenes that have no connection to the film whatsoever. If the scenes between him and John Abraham were to show some kind of male-bonding, they seemed completely out-of-place. 
Given that, it is really interesting that though the scenes don't connect with each other, there are a few that work and make you laugh. Omi Vaidya and Bharti Achrekar have you in splits for the little time they are on screen. Their act gave the distinct feeling that a lot many more dialogues would've worked better had there been better performances, especially by John Abraham.
But hey, it is clear that John Abraham's job description for this film certainly does not include acting skills. He features in Desi Boyz purely for his worked-out-to-near-perfection body. Deepika Padukone and Chitrangadha Singh do look their usual beautiful selves. I'll do the mandatory by saying that there isn't anything other than looking gorgeous that they are required to do. So much for the women's lib theme, I had thought of. Yep, I'm still beating myself up for having let that thought cross my mind. 
They dance, they fool around. They make you laugh a little less than they ought to have given some wise cracks that are written for them. And sure, there are a lot many individual lines that could've worked, but the overall plot did nothing at all to engage. The characters are a rather bland variety of "good at heart, will grudgingly sell their souls for their loved ones".
Desi Boyz talks a bit about friendship, a bit about love, a bit about recession, a bit about doing what's needed to get what you want. And the attempt is to have fun while talking about all of this. But everything is superfluous and a plot that gets you involved is sorely missing. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
