
Nothing that happens in Newton is really surprising. We know, more or less, how things work. The beauty is that you realise what you already know, as it unfolds in the film. This detailed unrevealing is what makes Newton a unique experience. 

                        Even as Newton avoids becoming a lesson in civics and moral science, it makes you wonder about history. Is our skepticism well-placed when we know that just 70 years ago, you and I wouldn't have had the right to vote, let alone fight for others' rights?
                    
This isn't an experience that glorifies the natural beauty of the forests of central India with its camera-work. There are no slickly designed action sequences that make it a must watch in the theater. It is the writing, the narration and the performances that make me want to watch it again. Of course, the film is pleasant to the eye and the action is real. But, the real hook is the sinking feeling that you are fighting. You know things are going to only get worse and ironically, you want to stay optimistic. And you are smiling through it all.
The conspicuous absence of satire is very satisfying. The humor comes from the situations and the everyday cynicism that fits in exactly at the place it is found at, in real life. Also, rarely does a film that takes on so many facets of life, does justice to all of them. A running theme through the film is the struggle between idealism and reality. This struggle is multiplied as our indignant, honest protagonist, Newton (Rajkummar Rao) meets the outright corrupt who patronize and humor him, till they realise they have to concede. You know why this latter group has a smirk on, as they watch Newton's realisation of the many-layered challenges in getting tribals to cast their vote in an election - villagers who live in abject poverty and are caught between the devil and the deep sea. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even after a few hours of having left the theater, I am in awe at the arm's distance the film maintains from taking a skeptical route. At times, it is indeed difficult to not scoff at Newton's borderline anal, righteousness. Yet, you are concerned for him when he calls out pseudo-nationalism even though it is a well-placed joke. You want to talk practical sense into him as he takes on the entitlement that the army-men feel. Just imagine, frail and meek Rajkummar Rao taking on Jack Nicholson in A Few Good Men. Yes, that scary. Because here, Atmaram (Pankaj Tripathi), the officer in charge of guarding the election officer's team could beat our protagonist brutally with good support from the rest of the characters. What's scarier is that the former might have support from a few in the audience too. It is no mean feat, to get an audience invested in as uni-dimensional a character as Newton. 
You are that involved. That too when half the film is about a few men and one woman waiting for voters to show up. This part makes for a good chunk of this crisp, 100+ minute film and yet it doesn't feel like the pace has slackened. The only place that film feels like it's slipping is towards the end - an act of desperation that is uncharacteristic of the film so far. Fortunately, it recovers with one of the best climaxes I have seen in Hindi films. 



There is also a song that might seem out of place. While watching it though, it felt like an intentional move to highlight the farcical proceedings of the election process. Also you realise that it wouldn't be surprising if a video like that went viral in real life.
So, we have come to the point I have been avoiding – the performances. What can one can say when every single actor is perfectly cast? It would be newsworthy only if Rajkummar Rao or Pankaj Tripathi failed us with their act. Anjali Patil makes an adivasi girl's indifference understandable and you can't complain when Raghubir Yadav's quirks bring out a laugh. Sanjai Mishra in his bit role is adorable. Even Mukesh Prajapati as Shambhoo has a screen presence about him despite his silence.

                        It is a risky film to make. Not just financially. A miffed group of trouble-makers could take objection to the balanced view. Hopefully unlike Newton, the character, the filmmakers won't have to bear the brunt of their virtues.
                    
Newton must have been a tough film to make at many levels. The bravado needed, to approach the topic or its details, to take a gentle stab at misplaced national pride, is obvious. But, it also isn't easy to write a story around the election process on election day and not make it cynically preachy, a civics lesson or documentary-like. That is like dodging three bullets coming at you. To survive the temptations and tell a story of a relatively uni-dimensional protagonist, in a crisp, immersive film is challenging, to say the least. I feel the need to visit this film again and have my kids watch it too – because this is a once in the blue moon film, the details of which, cannot be digested in one viewing. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
