
Ra.One's first-day-first-show was reviewed by wogma's guest reviewer Pradeep Menon here. Thank you so much, Pradeep for doing this for wogma. 
I was off for Diwali with family and saw the film a couple of days later. Here's how I liked Ra.One. * 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Ra.One works as a brilliant film for kids. And I say that with no sarcasm at all. From the time I heard the premise of the film, it gave a very children's film vibe. Of course, for the fear of alienating most of its audience, Ra.One couldn't be marketed as a kids film. But, in this day and age where being nice is not "cool" enough, Ra.One goes on to show what happens when you try to mess with the "good > evil" formula. Or like Pradeep said, "it tries".
It is only an attempt because the moral of the story is very functional, very shallow. When a woman who loves her husband, grieves only perfunctorily, using a two-minute song as a medium AND is ready to look all shiny and hot for the next party number, you can barely care for the character who just died. As an adult, I wonder, whether it was the right lesson in morals at all. But as a child, one could be more forgiving and focus on the job at hand - kill the villain and cheer up.
The movie-lover in me takes this lack of warmth in stride and focuses on how a film made for entertainment allows a dark event like death to happen. That and all the slick action at a swift enough pace that I didn't get bored in a two-and-a-half-hour film with a fifteen-minute ad-filled interval. That is a huge plus for me who wants every minute beyond the 100-105 minute mark to count.
While all the action is executed by a team that is obviously the best in its field, the writing is mediocre - both the dialogue and the overall story. The film tries too hard to be funny, and almost all the "one-liners" fall flat. The non-funny, supposedly emotional/inspirational lines are "bleh". The only line that stayed with me as a powerful statement was said by Ra.One the villain, which can also be heard in the promos. 
And I wish I had more of that, and also more of Ra.One, the character. I was supposed to fear him only because my protagonist feared him, not because there was anything menacing about him. And I can't blame actor, Arjun Rampal, the story itself didn't have any sub-plots or events that exposed anything loathsome about him. I need something powerful, if I'm supposed to hate a software program, right? 
It could also be because the only thing at threat is a little boy's life. It isn't as if the earth is being destroyed by aliens or world peace is at stake. And there isn't anything extra endearing about the little boy or his gorgeous mother Kareena Kapoor for me to feel the fear on his behalf. Instead, all we get is mumbo-jumbo in the name of how this game really works? 
We have a villain that has the power to take control over others' mind, and the writers couldn't think of intense situations for us to see his power. There is the one scene with Kareena Kapoor, but that comes across as a device to give her some more screen time with a different expression, than anything else. The climax is lame, but what it leaves is an interesting premise for a sequel, but of course, it will need some out-of-this-world writing to make good use of it. 
The one thing that comes as a pleasant surprise because it didn't happen is that Shah Rukh Khan doesn't fill every frame. Also, he doesn't ham and go all Shah Rukkkkhy on us, though he loses his Tamil accent way too often. There is one scene in which his character Shekhar is scared out of his wits, I forgot he's The SRK, I was taken over by Shekhar's fear and confusion over what's happening - absolutely un-hero like, and certainly non-star like. 
There are these little elements that make the film likeable. There isn't much to take home, but the 2.5 hours spent in the theater are not all bad. There are sequences in the film that made me miss my kids. I know where one will laugh out loud, and when the other will clench my hand with fear. Yes there's a lot of juvenile humor which I'm giving my kids two more years to snap out of.  I'm surely going to test my hypothesis out, not that I have a choice, for they both want to watch the movie, I've had to make a promise, "Even if you don't like it, mamma" :D I'll surely update this space if there are any interesting observations. Till then, a very Happy Diwali to all of you. 
And once again, thank you Pradeep for doing a wogma review on day 1. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
