
Have you ever noticed, that being around people younger than you, brings a spring in your step, makes you take life a little less seriously and deservedly so. Mujhse Fraaandship Karoge makes you spend two hours with regular yet vibrant twenty-one year-olds. And I don't know about that spring in the step, but it surely leaves a warm, mushy feeling. And despite all the predictability, the sharp dialogue and interesting characterization are good enough to make it worth the trip to the theaters. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There is only so much new that you can have in a girl-meets-boy story - somebody has to fall in love with somebody or someone has to live without someone . There is only that much more new you can expect from comic situations - there will be mistaken identities, there will be puns, there will be an attempt to infuse everyday, colloquial humor in the said situations and puns. Even if you come up with more such situations, hardly anything is going to be novel. 
The devil then lies in the details. And Mujhse Fraaandship Karoge does a wonderful job of getting the mini-situations in the situations, right. The lines are clever, they are delivered smartly and with control. Some of the back and forth between characters is so quick, that you miss what is told. Not the annoying hurried, quick. The kind of pacy dialogue that makes you sure, that you missed something good, given the tone of the film. 
Full credit to the almost brand new cast. From the main foursome, to the character roles - they are all played out well. I completely enjoyed Saqib Saleem and Saba Azad's performances. They annoy and entertain appropriately. 
Mujhse Fraaandship Karoge sticks to the genre it picks. It is not setting out to say anything profusely profound, but in its little way, it leaves around little quotable quotes and witticisms. Though the film never says it out loud, the overall impact is that - love is beyond a "hot" body and online personas. The next logical step is a story about how outdoor sports scores over the online "dhishoom-dhoosh!"
Of course, there is the underlying assumption that most urban romances are online rather than offline. We can argue about whether this is true or not, but the point is having made that assumption, the writers have a story to tell. They tell it well, and the director ably guides the youthful spirit of the story. 
In this particular case, the well-paced narration and the slick editing has a lot to add to the fresh feel of the film. The songs needed to have a little more zing. Except for the "dhyaun dhyaun" song, they are all pretty lame. But, they are again, elevated by the way they are edited. So brisk is the movement that you don't feel like you are listening to something average. 
Yes, I gladly take back all the nasty things I had to say after seeing the promo of the film. A decent film is so worth having to eat my words. Do I have a choice, considering a predictable boy-meets-girl story, with an unexplained transformation in character, created a string of moments that brought a tear to me eye?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
