
Love Breakups Zindagi has very deliberately written and made film. You can see the thought put in the growth of the characters and their interactions. Unfortunately, the makers aren't able to build momentum soon enough. They take too long to establish the chemistry between various characters and it ends up being a little too slow.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Unfortunately, this happens because they are trying to imitate life. It takes time to establish friendships and romantic relationships. The little things that attract people to each other take their own sweet time to reveal themselves. Real people give a lot of thought before breaking up with their partner and it is a tough decision. But, there are times when the slow pace works in a film and there are times when it doesn't. In Love Breakups Zindagi it mostly doesn't. 
Sadly, it is not for lack of trying. I really like the simple theme picked to make the film about, "Opposites attract, but choose a like-minded partner" but ironically, the simplicity makes it too dull. The effort is visible. The restraint in spending about 30-45 minutes of a film in a wedding set-up and keeping it quite is visible and I actually appreciate it too. But, the dialogue is too plain and thus too boring. 
Maybe, if the film were left to better actors, it would have pepped the film up a bit. But, Zayed Khan just doesn't work as a romantic hero. Every time he tries to emote a sentimental emotion, he brings a cringe. Dia Mirza is good as the confused girl who wants to do the right thing, but there is nothing special about her. Cyrus Sahukar has an effected dialogue delivery, the words don't flow. Tisca Chopra is the only one who looks competent and fit for her role, but then again this must be a cake walk for her. 
I usually, avoid talking about cameos, but here Shah Rukh Khan's special appearance brings about a very real, very believable reaction from Naina (Dia Mirza). It is adorable. But other than that the cameo, like most cameos, is dispensible. 
And that hurts because the biggest culprit in Love Breakups Zindagi's failure is the length. Had these cameos been chopped off, had a couple of side-stories been taken away, the film would be a crisper product rather than a limp one, which you are most likely to watch among many other things while flipping channels. 
Love Breakups Zindagi is one of those cases where rating it as "watch if you have nothing better to do" sounds a bit too harsh. It doesn't have laugh out loud or super-aawwww moments. But it is sweet and it does have a few relatable insights about relationships. But you have to be a very patient person to enjoy them.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
