
Soundtrack starts out with us following pretentious-looking Raunak (Rajeev Khandelwal). Raunak is seen tapping his feet and stopping to lend an ear to the rhythms of life. Having seen and liked Rajeev Khandelwal's earlier work I assumed that Raunak must actually be shallow and fake in terms of his understanding of music. But turns out that he actually has a good ear for music. Which means Rajeev Khandelwal isn't doing a good job. The sinking feeling gets worse with the OD of drugs, alcohol and sex. And then the story begins and boy did it suck me in - both because of the performances and the narration. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Soundtrack is a good example of a simple, predictable story told with a heart and devotion. You start out either hating or being unmoved by a character and in the next hour you find yourself caring for him. You want him to do well, however predictable that makes the film. 
This is achieved with mediocre production values. There is no fancy camerawork; neither are gimmicks used to depict the neurosis Raunak is going through. The only thing above average is the sound design. That too, there isn't anything marvelous about it. And even though these tools aren't used, the narrative engages the audience. 
Rajeev Khandelwal doesn't disappoint one bit. In hindsight, even his act in the first 10-15 minutes can be overlooked as Raunak is a rather cocksure and selfish character. I totally loved Soha Ali Khan, her real act starts way into the second half and yet when you come out, her character has left an impression and a couple of scenes to remind you of her. 
Soundtrack runs along the themes of life, its uncertainties and how people deal with or completely fail to deal with what is dealt to them. But, it also indirectly touches upon mental illnesses. While the solution Soundtrack comes up with might not be medically sound, probable or correct; the importance of strong will depicted in overcoming those odds is a slim ray of hope for people when they go through dark times. 
And the most important reason why Soundtrack works for me is that it is based on a true-life story. The impact of those two words, "true life" is enough to give Soundtrack a shot. And I'd recommend a theater watch, just because the impact could be lost/reduced if it is watched with interruptions/distractions. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
