
Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster creates a mystic aura around itself. It has the ambience of the heartland where princes still reign their now unofficial kingdoms with pride. With this background, though the story is of the same ol' politics and deceit. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Like any good thriller, Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster manages to make you consider the motivations of each character in turn, however small their role in the scheme of things. That is what keeps you engaged. Though it would have gotten us involved a lot more if we were involved with the characters of the film. These characters - be it the king (Saheb), the queen (Biwi), the servant who happens to be a gangster, or the other people around these three main characters - have strong reactions and we are given a glimpse of the justification for their reactions, but not once can we feel why the reaction was so strong. 
For example, each of the three main characters are shown to be madly in love and that seems to be the motivation behind their strong actions and reactions. But, the only way you know they are in love is because they are having sex with the person they are supposedly in love with. Other than that, there is no clue left of their love. The emotional connect needed to get the gravity of the behavior is missing. 
And yet, based on just the thriller element of the film, the curiosity of what will happen next exists. That curiosity does wane with the progress of the film because of way-too-many double-crossing and double-double-crossing characters. But still, its not a half bad thriller. A lot of the credit goes to the witty dialogue and its delivery. 
There is something inherently aristocratic about Jimmy Sheirgill and that works towards making his character the required amount of arrogant and vulnerable that princes in today's times are. Randeep Hooda and Mahie Gill are just about functional. Given the film revolves around their sensuality, I wonder if the film would have worked better if there were actors with more oomph value, especially Mahie Gill.
Also, given how much of the film revolves around attraction, seduction and sensuousness, those scenes are shot with the standard Indian awkwardness making you wonder why the characters are attempting to make love when they are so uncomfortable with the very idea. 
With all that's wrong with Saheb Biwi Aur Gangster, it is still a half-interesting watch. Only makes you wonder, what a wonderful film it would have been had it got even a little more right. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
