
Mausam is like a pleasant evening breeze - you enjoy it for a bit and then fall asleep. Which is extremely sad, because you see the labour of love in each frame. It's pretty in every corner. But, the love story unfortunately goes on and on like a battery in its advert. Fine, I didn’t fall asleep but that's because I don't believe in sleeping in films, especially the ones I'm reviewing. But, I could completely imagine someone dozing off for a bit, and guess what they wouldn't have missed much when they woke up. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Ironically, the eased-out pace Mausam starts with, is the only bit that's charming about the story. It's so pretty, so serene, so simple that high expectations are set for the drama to unfold. I enjoyed the leisurely life of a village with its cute sense of humor. But maybe, like life in the village, the story doesn't move. The characters move on, their problems and state of mind remain the same. Which is fine, that's what happens when we are in love. But, I'd enjoy my love story, I lose connection with the love between Harry (Shahid Kapoor) and Aayat (Sonam Kapoor). And there are enough, "aawwww, so sweet" moments in the first half hour. 
I also admired how the "sarson de khet" (mustard farms) I've been fed for over 15 years, felt fresh in the way they have been captured. The straight lines that railway tracks and electrical poles formed; the curves that bumpy paths and underground water pipes lying around the said "sarso de khet" formed - all very painstakingly framed. In fact, except for a tacky video-game-ish air-attack sequence, Mausam is beautifully shot. 
But, the sweetness of a relationship and the cinematography of a film can take it only so far. Of course, there is value to getting exasperated along with the characters' frustrations. But, not if it translates to irritation with the film itself. Not if, in a love story, you are forced to say, "true love and all is ok, make them meet and get done with it already!" 
And it's not like the writers haven't put in distractions along the way. There are enough of them. And I'm not talking about just the energetic songs which make you feel like you can watch Shahid Kapoor dance forever. There is historical and political context within which our lead pair struggles. Politics that you and I have witnessed. Times that we have horrific memories of. We should've gotten involved, we should've rooted for the lead pair. We don't. 
This is despite the fact that you see at least one of the two beautiful people in each frame of the screen. I didn't quite get why Harry went so rigid. I was almost going to blame Shahid Kapoor for not being able to carry off the "serious" facet of Harry, but soon realized that Harry had lost all his charm and vigor. Sonam Kapoor on the other hand maintains a status quo throughout the film. In fact, her expressions are a carry forward from her debut film, Saawariya.
A love story between a Hindu boy and a Muslim girl minus the parents who usually raise hell. The lovers' bad luck keeps getting worse and the hatred around them won't let them be together. Hatred that isn't even directly linked to their lives. The tragedy is rather poetic, in that, the two who want to live in a time and space oblivion are separated by geography and a timeline. But poetry can be boring. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
