
Mirzya is quite meta in its story. It goes the extra mile to prove that a love story stays pretty much the same, through the ages. So, before you as an audience can say, “it's the same old story”, they say it. Only they say it with a lot more jazz. Still means the same to you, you are quite thoroughly bored.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Visual finesse can enamour you for a bit. Quirky song picturization can wake you up for those few minutes. Beyond that, Mirzya holds no hook. The tone of the movie is such that you can pretty much guess how it's going to end. 
The characters have nothing to hold your interest except that the actors playing them look gorgeous. Except Zeenat (played by yet another gorgeous Anjali Patil) who creates intrigue enough to want to see more of it. Her relationship with Monish (Harshvardan Kapoor) seems much deeper than that of his with Suchitra (Saiyami Kher). Why are they in love again? The entire story is a broad stroke. The details are only in the visuals. They grant the film a mysterious feel. But, it is more theatrical than what belongs to a movie. With these, Mirzya reminded me vaguely of Kites, Love Story 2050 and even Drona. And anyone who has seen these films will know it's not a compliment. 



It is commendable then that the lead actors Harshvardhan Kapoor, Saiyami Kher and Anjali Patil stay restrained. With all the slo-mo in the folklore part of the film, it would have been very easy to go overboard. But those bits are surprisingly only as dramatic or not as a nicely shot, video of a slow-soothing song. I would love to see more of these two. They don't have that woodenness that most beginners have in their first few films. They don't carry airs about how pretty they are. 
The visualization takes care of calling undue attention to itself. And the music. Sure, the movie would have been an absolute dud if it were not for the music. And even so, the songs felt out of place every single time, including the title song. However, I can listen to the songs on loop all day, for a few days.
But, what good is a service to the eyes and ears without any attempt to engage the mind or the heart? This story-telling needed a better story. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
