
Bodyguard's last half hour constantly reminded me of a Chinese curse. 
May your wish be granted.
I had wished for a story in a Salman Khan film and I got it. And there was so much story stuffed into those 30 minutes that I was praying for it to be over. And it refused, as if taunting me, "you wanted story, you take story! And here take some more." 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Fortunately, maybe, all is not lost for Salman Khan fans. There are at least three action packed sequences with slick moves. But somehow, a lot of the credit will be taken by the camera and editing for the "coolness".
The rest of the time though, he plays the squeaky clean, Lovely Singh. The romance he's involved in drags forever and has a climax that you can laugh out your heart at - not in a good way. And the exact same laughter is brought about every time Salman Khan breaks into a song. No rhyme, no reason, just been a while since the audience has seen Salman Khan move his muscles, so let's edit a song in. The supposedly comic scenes on the other hand barely bring a smile or two. At other times, they bring cringes, especially when the "comic relief" side-kick comes on screen. 
The one thing that I found amusing above all is that Salman Khan is being played around at the hands of a woman. Otherwise, usually the women are thrown around as if they have no brains and are helpless at the hands of their men. That doesn't mean Kareena Kapoor gets a chance to have a pathbreaking performance. She does her usual pretty-young-thing bit, only she gets a little more screen time than otherwise accorded to a non-Salman-Khan in a Salman Khan film. 
Usually, for a film where only the star of the film matters, I have a disclaimer that the review doesn't apply to the star's fans. But, I doubt even hardcore Salmaniacs will enjoy Bodyguard either. The star however is confident as ever and has a "I can get away with anything" attitude. 
A dialogue in the film goes, "tumhaari nazar mein tum hero, hamari nazar mein hum hero" (According to you, you are the hero. According to me, I am the hero). Who would have thought a Salman Khan film could be introspective.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
