
A Prabhu Deva film that doesn't flaunt his dancing skills. I am all for a film that is willing to offer anything that is not expected. Unfortunately, just because it is unexpected doesn't make it enjoyable. Tutak Tutak Tutiya showcases Prabhu Deva's acting chops alright, but is totally confused between being a horror, romantic and comedy film. In turn, you are just about amused by what's on, on-screen. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


What can you do but smile at a character who wants a “modern” woman for a wife? So, much for being modern, right? What can you do but breathe deeply when he swats a woman he doesn't want to date, shows interest? It's supposed to be a joke, slapstick, you see? What can you do but shrug because you have resolved to take a joke lightly?
Thankfully, Tutak Tutak Tutiya doesn't stay with these things for too long and moves on to other things that make little sense. But, hey it is horror, there are ghosts. It has the license to not make sense. Given that, there is a lot of room to get creative. Especially when you have chosen to take the comedy route. Surprisingly, they do. There is one scene in which the ghost takes a different turn to harass the other characters. Within the context of Hindi films it is novel and amusing. Also, the CGI is pretty neat. 



The other surprise is in the form of Tamannaah Bhatia. She takes on her Jekyll and Hyde role pretty well. Even if, in those roles individually, she is expected to hold only one expression. It is still a relief from the plastic doll roles. Prabhu Deva on the other hand is alright when scared but is unconvincing when trying to be a snob. 
Then comes the resolution. The  mild interest that might have generated with the protagonist's dilemma - between being scared and helpless against a mean ghost and wanting to do right for the good person that his wife is - is squashed with the most ridiculous climax of them all. One last chance to amuse you with its silliness doesn't go vain. That's all I can say.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
