
A film supposedly about the common man represented by Mussaddi did not make me identify with him, even though I've gone through situations as Mussaddi. What could be a bigger failure of the film?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Have there been times when you are watching a film and there is a side-story interesting enough that makes you say, "wow, that can be a film by itself." Looks like, the makers of Chala Mussaddi - Office Office had a similar epiphany when they were watching Lage Raho Munnabhai's pensioner scene. Unfortunately, they have made an awfully pale tale out of it. 
A tale that a talent like Pankaj Kapoor couldn't do anything to help. I look forward to Pankaj Kapoor films and somehow even as I watched the trailer of Chala Mussaddi - Office Office, I cringed at the stereotypical babu (bureaucrat) representation. 
The irony is that had I heard just the concept, it would have excited me. I don't think there can be enough films made about how deeply engrained corruption is. But we don't really want our films to be an exaggerated and repetitive staging of reality. 
The characters are all caricatures and the regular amount of disgust-inducing. While I liked the fact that the same actors appeared in various roles, there was no theme to it and soon that too became boring. 
The one good thing about the film is that characters don't suddenly transform. The good-for-nothings and dishonest remain so. No amount of speeches and appeals move the hard-hearted bureaucrats. 
It can also be said that the climax is sort-of, kind-of redeeming because of the circular reference it gets into. Also, it takes the action to a high after the recurring theme of Mussaddi going from office to office to get what is rightfully his in the first place. But, then again the answer is too idealistic and simplistic.
Then again, maybe the solution is simple. Maybe our work against corruption starts at home with simple things. Maybe the point is to not let the problem become so big that we have to stage a theatrical climax as our solution. Sorry to digress though, these thoughts of mine are despite this inconsequential film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
