
Within the first few minutes of Gandhi To Hitler, you know that any expectations you might have had of it being a decent film are going to be mercilessly squashed. Sure, if you sit through almost two hours and you could attempt to appreciate what the film might be trying to do. It tries to bring out what any war film worth its salt would want to demostrate - the futility of war. And it tries to say that even the worst of human beings, is after all, human. But arriving at these deductions requires a lot of effort and patience.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


While trying to talk about what I didn't like about Gandhi To Hitler, I'm going to try and ignore the laughable use of language. I take a HUGE leap of faith, when I hear Hitler speak a mix of Hindi and Urdu with what is supposedly a German accent. And I don't know if that is worse or better than Raghuvir Yadav quote Shakespeare with awful diction. Each one of the actors, except maybe Neha Dhupia made me want to cry out of despair. 
Yet, let's say we let that go. And it does become easier to let it go, with the distorted narrative, hotchpotch editing, and convoluted connections in the story. Gandhi To Hitler is set between 1939 and 1945. I guess it tries to display the devastation of Hitler's reign. But how am I supposed to appreciate what he went through when he was betrayed by his senior officials when they have shown me nothing about their loyalty or his trust. What do I care about his breakdown, when I know nothing of him from his heyday? 
And the distractions from what seems like the main story are extremely annoying. The shift of focus from Hitler or Balbir (a soldier from Subhash Chandra Bose's army) to the angst that the ones who love them go through doesn't serve any purpose. But to draw the parallel, that both these men who believed in violence didn't really have any redeeming quality that would make them lovable. They seemed largely inconsiderate towards their women. And in between a war film, you have characters preaching love and family values. 
The umpteen voiceovers, text superimposes, the stock footage, the grainy and sepia texture all made Gandhi To Hitler look and feel like a documentary. How I wish, it was a well-made, adequately-researched, thoroughly-thought-out documentary. Gandhi's track was almost 100% voiceover. Hitler's track had too many people with a layer of thick, visibly bad, make-up. Not to mention costumes in this period drama that most likely didn't belong to the period. I'm no expert, but crisp, cotton, chickenkari dresses (for the children) looked out-of-place in Germany of the 1940s. And Balbir's track - if I don't feel empathy when Indian soldiers are being shot at, and they are in an awful situation for no fault of theirs, what has the film achieved? Are we sure the main reason for this track was not to elongate the run-time and make room for some lip-sync song-and-dance routines? 
And pushing itself forward to seek your attention is a fourth track - the background score. It had an agenda of its own. I couldn't figure what it was though. 
That is exactly what Gandhi To Hitler felt like. A deliberate or even desperate trial at joining the dots between whatever little we know about the last few months of Hitler's life. A forced attempt at making a connection between Gandhi and Hitler. An aimless account in the endeavor to be "different".
I feel sad for the writer and the director. They thought they set out on a project that would bring a lot of meaning to the people who indulge them. But, this indulger came out feeling pity for them. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
