
Singham desperately wants to highlight the power of numbers. Especially when the number is actual people who are frustrated with the system they have become a part of. Singham says, if we believe in this power nothing is unachievable. Well, this is not the first story that wants us to believe, nothing is beyond a "united" people - be it media, police or the common man. I'm not going to complain about how simple Singham's solutions are or how idealistic too. The problem is, the wagon it uses to make its point. It is action comedy. It is cool inside the theater and forgotten outside. To top it off, all the "smart action" parts, you've already seen in the trailers.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Singham would have worked a little better if they had a little more action than the one we had already seen because I remember being in complete awe of the muscular Ajay Devgn running in slo-mo, getting off a swinging jeep. It was creative and held my attention. The entire feature though, is held together by a very slow set-up, choppy flow and unbelievable character transformations to make the climax. 
It is weird to assess a particular sequence or character when you like the concept of what's playing itself out but you are laughing at the far-fetched actions and reactions. I guess it's because you just wish some of the things happening were true. 
Other than these things though, there were a few immensely likeable elements in Singham. One is ofcourse, Ajay Devgn. He plays the quite-in-words, loud-with-action Singham with a lot of energy. Prakash Raj plays the arrogant, "egoistical" Jaykant Shikre with a good dose of humor. The rest of the cast supports these two in whatever needs to be done to get the film through its 140 minute run-time.
These characters, the lines given to them, the set-up they find themselves in all say, "we are so cool that you can laugh at us, see if we care." They play childish pranks with each other, they mock and mimic each other, they bring in popular film references in regular conversation. These are the things that make Singham a little more than a regular good cop-bad goon drama. 
The good is good and the bad is bad, and it more or less, remains so. The hero is so good, and the villain is so bad that you don't believe either of them but you still want to know how the good is going to get out of the soup that the evil has created. Anyway, maybe the gray shade had no business in films like this. Who wants the "in-between" when a corrupt politician needs to be beaten up?
Singham does represent the frustration our nation is going through. We are desperate. We want solutions to our corrupt government. We are so darn aggravated that we want to suspend our disbelief and trust that if we all came together we can crack the long-overdue whip at the system. So, we cheer Singham as he goes about his job of being honest and brave. But Rohit Shetty doesn't want us to forget it's a film. He makes sure with his "out-takes" in the end credits. All this coolness is fake; it's for films. In real life, you can't do better than online petitions and candle light vigils. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
