
Have you noticed the rising background music that almost every rom-com plays in the climax? It’s a predictable pattern – rising piano melodies and beats, a raging one-liner, which changes the course of the film, “You had me at hello” (Jerry McGuire) or “It was magic” (Sleepless in Seattle). 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Following which, the music stops, for the ground breaking 30 seconds of revelation. And then the pair kiss; over a slow sax playing in the background. Even though we love seeing our familiar faces – Julia Roberts, Hugh Grant, and Richard Gere – do the romance ritual, we could each write a thesis on it.
A Lot Like Love, too, is predictable, but only the kind that you like to relish on a love-starved day. It’s a story of two stark opposites (predictability no. 1) Amanda Peet and Ashton Kutcher, who meet on a flight while still in college. Sparks fly, (no 2) but with one slight variation. 
Peet is looking for some airplane-washroom-action, while Kutcher seems love struck. They find excuses to keep in touch and this sparks off a series of meeting over 10 years. They grow up, but not with each other – and in each phase, they manage to run into each other. 
The fun bit of the film is that every chance meeting isn’t predictable; the lead actors have a crackling chemistry and the soundtrack is extremely sensual, funny and passionate - very much in sync with the film. 
A Lot Like Loveis fresh, because it doesn’t need to rely on stereotypes to reveal a growing bond between the lead pair. With each chance meeting, year after year, the chemistry/repressed emotions get more and more palpable. 
Much like the rising piano melodies that are intrinsic to a climax of a rom-com, A Lot Like Love’s script (written by Colin Patrick Lynch) rises with every plot point, to a predictable climax, you want the movie to move in a pace where you can absorb every moment of growing passion.
The DVD, released by Bueno Vista Home Entertainment, has a couple of negligible bonus features – an audio track by director Nigel Cole, deleted scenes and blooper reel that is very hilarious courtesy Ashton Kutcher and a music video of Aqualung’s 'Brighter Than Sunshine', possibly the best song on the soundtrack.
We all like to be intellectually stimulated, but there’s a different joy in reaching out to a more expressive side within you, that likes the regular dose of mush. Unlike typical romantic movies, A Lot Like Love is a crisp, fresh and well-paced love story of two very lovable characters. It’s A Lot Like Love, not all love. It’s partly wit, partly humour and lots of smile-worthy moments!

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Swetha Ramakrishnan. Swetha Ramakrishnan is currently living and working in Mumbai. She's a self-confessed film enthusiast and can most likely be found talking to anyone and everyone about popular cinema and her love for SRK. 
    
      Swetha Ramakrishnan also blogs at http://swetharamakrishnan.blogspot.com/.
    
    
  
