
I loved Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara. I don't know if it will last long enough to become classic or cult (never understood those terms). But, I enjoyed every single moment that I spent in that theater. Yes, even though it was a full two-and-a-half-hour-long film. Three friends are off to Spain to close on a deal they made with each other years ago - each will choose an adventure that the three of them have to experience together. The characters are alive, the cast is lively, the writer is thoughtful and the movie is clean, soft, perceptive entertainment.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There is nothing profound about Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara; neither does it bring any insight that you and I don't already have from our own relationships. But, it connects from the word go. Maybe, I connected with it instantly because some of the things are too close to home. 
I've spent a lovely week-long, road-trip in Spain. I've walked through the little towns on their narrow, stone-bricked lanes. I've lived in the quaint hotels with their lovely lobbies.  And the cinematographer brings all of this alive. Spain, what a beauty you are! 
Add to this nostalgic mood, a piece of adventure that the three friends are experiencing. Deep sea diving, my latest addition to the "I love" list. And sky-diving which I've wanted to do (with my mom, no less!) for the last 15 years. The third adventure, uh...well...that one I think I'll play the woman card and leave it at, "I'm happy to enjoy it vicariously through Abhay Deol, Farhan Akhtar and Hrithik Roshan."
Also fast getting on the list of "I love" are these three men! And goodness, even Katrina Kaif. Abhay Deol is instantly endearing as the sorted-out, problem-free, likeable guy who runs a little above average on emotion for a man. Farhan Akhtar's Imran is aptly described as an a$$hole. He plays the perfect shallow-outside-deep-inside, observant poet who doubles up as the comic relief. If I had to pick a weak-link it'd be Hrithik Roshan, but I'd be nit-picking about how his acting falls flat in the second half. He, after all, did get me annoyed with his "oblivious to my arrogance" attitude. 
Usually, introductions bore me; they are too in the face. And climaxes, disappoint me. The better the build-up towards it, the worse the fall in the end. Very few films manage the climax that is Goldilock's "just right". Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara's set-up is so subtle, that you don't even realize that's what it is till the opening credits begin. And the climax is yep, "just right"! A minute more after that would have been too much. 
Yeah-yeah-yeah, there I do have my mandatory reviewer's disclaimer "There are couple of flawed moments." But you know what, they pass by quickly, and the fun/sweet moments are many more.
Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara like zindagi itself, is about mistakes. It's about closure and the importance of closures. Because only then can we move on. Only then, can we have that new beginnings, we so deserve. 
"Life is a once-only gift. Live it to the fullest."  The cliché was alien to our parents. And is becoming the mantra of our responsibility-free generation. And why not? New money is becoming easier to get and even easier to spend. Savings is a dated concept. Because who knows? You might live long enough to enjoy retirement. Reminder: We live in a world of tsunamis and bomb blasts. So, there is merit to "live the moment"
So, when are you planning your next vacation? Fine, fine, take your time. Meanwhile, book your tickets before the praise that I've just showered upon the film raises your expectations so high, that they will only fall. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
