
It's unlikely that kids have a smartass nickname for every-single-body they know (including the apartment complex they live in). For sure, kids do not take on powerful politicians to do what they think is right. But neither do kids solve mysteries like the  Famous Five or the Secret Seven. Chillar Party is a story. It asks us to think what we have grown into, from the innocent, straightforward children we once were. Chillar Party doesn't preach, it keeps things simple and that's what worked for me, especially the climax. It hits you just the right amount. And it gets the right spot too. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


A bunch of kids from middle class families fall in love with a homeless child and his dog. The stage is set for one those regular, "I'm so sorry for you, that I need to help you" story (very similar to Zor Laga Ke Haiyya). Which translates to -  the stage is set for kids acting too old for their age, preaching to adults who are always wrong, etc. This, in turn, translates to a lot of yawning. But, Chillar Party begins to surprise you. 
The surprises begin with little things. For example, there is no overt sympathy towards a child because he is less fortunate. He earns the sympathy he deserves, one bit after another. And all of it through play.  The Chillar Party gets no instant success, it has its share of struggle. 
Children behave the way children are most likely to behave. Well, almost. Of course, it's difficult to accept that kids can start a revolution. But in these times of internet and candle-light vigils, can we be sure that kids can't do it? It doesn't really take that much to make it to the breaking news, does it? 
Parents scold, are unreasonable and considerate as parents usually are. The child-parent or even the parent-parent interactions flow naturally. Ever been to a society meeting? There is this particular moment in which you see how every dad is a hero for his child. But, you know the dad is in a situation, that adults invariably find themselves in, which will take him far away from being a hero. 
Sure, the things the Chillar Party tries to do are larger-than-life. But who knows what we were capable of when we were children. I know my kids (ages 7 and 9) understand concepts though they might know the words adults use to describe them. I know they come up with the most awesome ideas when they are NOT asked to (and are asked not to, too!). Girls from my building (ages 6-9) have formed a "creativity club" and their first activity was to make ID cards for its members. And rule +1 is "boys not allowed!" 
Chillar Party is adorable and cute. Both the film, the members of the gang, and the actors who make the gang work. The music is catchy and fun. Kids are going to have a ball while watching the film. And there's hope that adults will remember the film a little after they are out of the theater. Especially when they are reminded of the lessons taught in school. No, no, not the ones that are "really" useless. The life hacks, we teach our kids but forget to follow through on. 
The kids might feel sorry for a stray dog (Oh, for the record, I don't even like dogs!). But, we as adults know Chillar Party is about something much larger. Us. The world we have made our home. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
