
First things first (oh how I hate the phrase but, how important it is), T  bhabhi, please don't read this, go and enjoy your film. That goes for all Big B lovers. I am one too, so I know how much we want to like Bbuddah Hoga tera baap.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Reviewers like us will come and go, who want this, that and more in our films. But a persona like Amitabh Bachchan...
Bbuddah Hoga tera baap is an attempt to pay a tribute to him. Because there can be no justifiable words after those three dots, the film is underwhelming. For example, the songs had caught on, and you knew AB Sr. is going to groove to them. I don't know what you are expecting, but something that will surpass his cool act in Jumma Chumma, maybe? That's not to say he doesn't look suave in white and orange, with a printed scarf. Or that his moves aren't as charming as they were, back then. 
But then, you see both, the writer/director's passion and devotion to the man whose films we grew up with. You see he's hurt, that his idol has been sidelined to roles that say, "ol' man, you have passed your prime." Even if they are age-appropriate. He wants to revive that charisma, maybe, one last time. That I respect.
It's not like the film just showcases Amitabh Bachchan as  Amitabh Bachchan and has nothing more. Considering that the film is a blatant "star-centric" film, Bbuddah Hoga tera baap has a reasonably fleshed out story. The characters might not be very deeply thought out, but their motivations are clear. There are nuances that keep the film contemporary. Like the honesty about morals that were always deteriorated. He's not moralistic just because he's Amitabh Bachchan
But alongside are the references/tributes to films from the 70s. The parents who hate love stories; the hero who continues to be a hero despite taking on 3-4 bullets on the chest; the gratuitous song; a girl who plays hard to get. Some of these things work, some don't. Raveena Tandon as comic relief is annoying beyond measure, for example. 
Then again, there are those simple things that give joy just because they aren't there. Unlike some producers we know, you don't have this one making his presence felt in a now-mandatory end credit "item" song. When the songs actually had enough potential to do the job. It's a film by him, for him and of him, after all.
I liked Bbuddah Hoga tera baap because of Amitabh Bachcan. In a very vague way, I get Salmania. But I still use vague because, had it been an Ajooba or a Toofan, I'd have hated it. Thank you, Mr. Writer, for leaving in a story in there. But, I know you know, nothing can do justice to what Amitabh Bachchan symbolizes for at least three generations. Maybe it's time to tap how much more he's capable of. For your attempt, though, I applaud you, because I identify with your enthusiastic affection. 
So, here goes my attempt at a tribute. I could sit in one place and look at him, staring at a distance, humming 'Haal-e-dil' for an hour and a half and more. When he romanticizes Bombay, he combines two of my loves, and the delight it brings, makes me nostalgic about my affair with the city. When he flirts with girls less than half his age, he makes me cringe. Maybe because I see a baap in him. But soon enough, I forget that I'm seeing him, I see good ol' Viju charming his way - girls, women, police, villains, and all. Except, he can't reach out to the woman of his life. In that fleeting moment, his pain is evident, so are his arrogance, helplessness and resignation. When he kicks a villain's butt and 65+ year-old muscles move to some really complicated action choreography - without the help of a camera trick or an editor - I......oops, sorry, didn't mean to call him bbuddah! Can I get away with, "Sir, I wanted to see more, much much more"

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
