
Makers of such slapsticks suffer from a huge superiority complex. By such slapstick, I mean, the ""ball hits balls" and again and again" kind of "comedy". And the makers' arrogance is transparent. Obviously they are intelligent people. They have raised  finances for such a dumb product. And yet they have this condescending attitude towards their audience. Or maybe, having money and knowing what to do with it, requires two different types of intellect. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even so, we know for a fact that Arshad Warsi, Riteish Deshmukh, Jaaved Jaaferi AND Sanjay Dutt are capable of so much more. Heck, even Ashish Chaudhury can do a better job with overacting than this. And yet, they chose this film. They couldn't be that out-of-work, could they? Miss Cleavage-Kangna-Cleavage-Ranaut-Cleavage and Mallika Sherawat did a better job than any of the guys, imagine that! Well, then again, that's only relative.
The thing is the film has a plot that had huge potential to be funny. Four good-for-nothings trying to out-smart a smart aleck ex-cop. But if you are not going to get the least bit creative about your characters, how am I supposed to get interested? Save Maanav (Jaaved Jaaferi), the other three good-for-nothings have no distinguishing characters. They all can mimick, they can all role-play, they can all pull-off a disguise. Even though the disguises were well done and could actually conceal identity, the changed identities remained pretty much the same. Why have three different characters? Oh, too much money and we know not what to do with it, I forgot.
If they didn't feel the need to work on a plot or characters, the least they should've tried is get a laugh or two out of us, right? Whole eggs crack in the mouth, and a guy chews on his boxer's naada (the string that holds the boxer shorts up) - they make me squeeze my eyes close and I can taste the disgust. In that sense then, I could feel what the characters felt. Sigh
Neither do the umpteen references to other films or actors from the industry reach out to my funny bone. There is this slight comment the makers want to make about the babas (spiritual gurus) are no better or worse than goons from the underworld. But, the whole sub-episode is so loud that you couldn't bother yourself with subtext. 
On the other hand, the film does try to laugh at itself. There's a comment about the foursome, "they look like crooks" That is true. All four of them look straight out of the goon-factory - shady and repulsive. Then there are these two scenes where Sanjay Dutt makes a "I don't have patience for this anymore" expression, mimicking what's running through the audience's minds at those exact points. Yet you cannot forgive them for taking you for a fool.
Another film that takes the audience for granted. Another one that would make the lousy sms forwards more interesting than the supposed smart-quips. Another one for you to skip and so you can enjoy the monsoons.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
