
Anyone going in expecting a Bheja Fry - Part 2 will be disappointed. Anyone going in expecting laugh-out-loud comedy will be disappointed. The only people who have any hope of being satisfied are the Vinay Pathak believers. That too, is more of the same. But we'll make do since we've paid for the ticket. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


This is a serious case of give him too much money, and your disciplined child will become a spoilt brat. You have your aerial shots and cruise ships and remote island locales. It’s cool, it's great even. But just for the sake of creating a situation which sounded great in your head? Especially the regional jokes were the least funny of them all! 
I don't know if it's a boon that Vinay Pathak is around to save the film or a curse that he spent time on it. Kay Kay Menon would have sleep walked through Bheja Fry 2 in his amateur days (if there is anything  like that for him, that is.) Amongst the rest you have Minissha Lamba in the first half and Amole Gupte in the second. She is clueless and he is loud, deafeningly loud. 
Amole Gupte's character is equally out of place too. In fact, everything in the second half just goes over-the-top. It becomes like a Tom and Jerry show, waiting to become funny. Or just getting stuck in admiring the brilliant simpleton vs. snotty idea that they had in the first film, and not knowing how to milk it further. 
Dear Mr. Ballary, if I want to see a senseless, plotless film that wants to make me laugh and fails miserably. I have my guaranteed avenues. I don't want precious money reserved for smaller films spent on that kind of tripe. New tripe, I'm ready for.  But the same thing over, na-ah.
It hurts, you know? I mean, it's fantabulous and all that jazz when independent filmmakers get more money to make their films after a good first show. It's even better to have a Vinay Pathak on screen. Heaven knows how much I love seeing him over a moustache that is the only muscle moving on an actor's face. Or a dimple. But it hurts, and you know not how, when a Ready makes me laugh a little more than a Vinay Pathak-Kay Kay Menon film.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
