
I am in a state of shock. Ready actually has a sort-a, kind-a coherent story. Well of course, I'm using the word coherent loosely. And story. And what-the-hell, "sort-a, kind-a" too. What I'm trying to get at is, Ready has focus. Or more focus than the director's last outing and the actor's last outing. Put together, of course. I'm not joking or being sarcastic when I say, I found some of the one-liners and movie references in Readyquite witty. I talk defensively because of my general contempt for "mindless entertainers". 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So, you have your standard "boy hates girl and yet wants to save her from the big, bad world" routine. Boy is Prem (surprise!) who can get away with anything and is played by your standard Salman Khan doing a "I can get away with anything, take that, you reviewers!" I actually saw one one-liner in which I smiled and thought, "wow! Comic timing and all, huh?" 
I don't get phrases like "paisa vasool" and "time-pass". And surely I know nothing about what works for Salman fans. For example, Sakshi (one of the two Salmaniacs I know)  tweeted  - 
Okay so the first half isn't all that great or anything. and
2nd half zillion times better.
And I thought post interval, the film became more of the same from Anees Bazmee's world (along with its distasteful sproduction values). Till then, stuff was in the believable range. Like, you could see why Prem liked Sanjana and vice versa. Such logic is totally unheard of in this genre. 
Also, what makes Ready a shade different from other Salman films is that the other characters in the film had something to do. They are a tad more than props that work towards establishing how cool Salman is. For example, Mohan Joshi has a few amusing quips. Though the mockery that Paresh Rawal makes of himself is pretty much the same. Asin looks barely presentable. What went wrong, make-up dada?
Another thing that happened here is that there was an attempt at passing on a social message. The irony of the social message was beyond hilarious. A husband realizes he's oppressing his wife, so he gives the woman "permission" to eat before him!?! 
But, you know as well as I do, no amount of "different" within the confines of what Anees Bazmee  can make is enough to make a film that I can whole-heartedly recommend. And, you know as well as I do, a Salman Khan fan cares two hoots for what I recommend or not. Go along and watch the next "creative" way in which his shirt comes off!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
