
An educated, bored housewife homemaker is taken for granted. Not a very unfamiliar situation. You feel bad for her. You want her to reach out and do something exciting for herself. Can a day in her life actually make an interesting film, even if it is an unusual one? Not really. Especially when it's done in a mostly, disjointed way.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


One way to enjoy most films, or at least give them a fair chance, is to give in to the writer's leap of logic. I mean there is no way you can even begin to understand the basic premise of Kucch Luv Jaisaa if you cannot accept that a middle-aged, supposedly-smart woman would strike a conversation with a stranger at a coffee shop and ask to spend a day with him. So, accept we shall. 
But within the confines of those logical aberrations, there should be some rules, right? The weird just keeps getting weirder. And Kucch Luv Jaisaa is almost as boring as a woman-going-through-mid-life-crisis' life. Some endearing observations - minor and larger, societal, topical ones - and awesome performances by the lead pair that keep it from being a satisfying snooze experience. 
I have loved Sheffali Chayya Shah, ever since her Banegi Apni Baat days. She has a screen presence that very few character actors can boast of. And she carries that off in Kucch Luv Jaisaa too. Rahul Bose is her glum, introvert and perceptive companion. 
If only their characters had better motivations or even their motivations had better details, the film would have been enjoyable. Let us assume, the aim of the film is not to engage us in the aims and objectives of their lives. In that case, at least what they observed about each other needed something stronger, anything to involve us that one bit more. 
And what was with getting issues like "how to talk to your teenage daughter" doing in the middle of all this? Or rather in the end of all this? To show the stuck-at-home woman is after all "cool"?
You pick a dull housewife, you pick a gangster. Chalk and cheese spend a day together, we get that. You try to tell us that it's not fun to be either. Maybe they need to find an in-between and that's where they'll find peace and happiness. Yeah, right? Sounds like a quotable quote - you read, you smirk and you move on. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
