
Pink isn't really a fictional film, is it? It might as well have been a documentary. In fact, a lot of the screenplay, must read like one. A very engrossing documentary, though. One that from the word go makes you identify with it. However, every once in a while it reminds itself that it is a movie, as if it were mandatory - by use of a song or a  break from the drama. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Pink is so close to home that only a few of those digressions bother you. As a middle-aged, urban woman with two teenage kids, one of whom is a girl – the questions Pink raises are something I struggle with on an almost day-to-day basis.  As a middle-aged, urban woman who likes to meet new people, I have often had to think about what my actions must be construed as by the people around me. I cannot even imagine what it must be like for a young girl who lives by herself. 
This identification has been used to Pink's advantage. Well, for starters, you smirk at the sarcasm in its title. To make the point it wants to, it's important that the audience feel like it could happen to them any day. As it very well might. However, it still doesn't hit the gut. 



There is just the one scene that makes you squirm. I would think that would be the root of the courtroom drama. But the rest of the film, barely mentions it. It nagged me through the film. But, as an afterthought, might as well. If a relatively less serious offense can be brought to attention. The more serious one is taken care of by itself. Nip it in the bud, so to speak. However, when I say that, I go out on a limb here. Because as a psychiatrist friend once told me, it doesn't matter whether it was “actual” rape or not. The only thing that matters is the violation that the victim feels.
Apologies, I digress again. I like films that make me digress in this manner. They have to be well-written and well-performed for it to be so effective. The girls all play the bits well enough for us to worry about them. The guys make you want to hold them by the collar and punch their eye. If anyone, the prosecutor, played by Piyush Mishra comes across like a caricature; his act a bit over-done.
In Amitabh Bachchan films, I always admire how you tend to forget the actor and remember the character he played, especially while you are watching the film. Here I was slightly worried that the film might become about this mentally deteriorating lawyer. But, the film is only and only about the issue. The lawyer, the victims, the culprits serve only one purpose – to bring the issue forth.
And of course there is a sermon. It is broken into pieces and is not one long lecture. But it is a speech nevertheless. That Amitabh Bachchan is delivering it, makes you listen to it with rapt attention. That it is about a topic that means something to you, helps you too. But hey, it is a sermon nevertheless. And my problem with them is that they jolt you out of the story making you realise again that it is a film you are watching. Equally jarring is the song that abruptly begins in the background. Also, a little less of the setup and a little more of the courtroom drama would have worked better. 
Even so, when it is time, as a parent of a girl, I would want her to watch this film. I believe, I don't have to teach her, her rights. But, just to be sure, maybe I should. As a parent of a boy, I would want him to watch this film. I believe, I don't have to teach him physical boundaries and the meaning of consent. But, just to be sure, maybe I should. And if the lad has to get a sermon, why not from the man himself, why not through a story with characters to hate and root for, why not through a display of emotions very real. 
Yeah, yeah, yeah, trust a parent to turn a film into education. But, did I not mention, Pink might as well have been a dramatic documentary? A good one, at that.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
