
To say that Pyaar Ka Punchnama relies heavily on the stereotyping women would be stating the obvious in an understated manner. But you are here; you are watching the film, might as well give in. And you see yourself in a land of puppies and bitches. Women are the most unreasonable, flaky, demanding, ruthlessly selfish kind of human beings. As a corollary, the other kind of humans is puppy-in-distress all the way from the eyes to the heart. If you manage to get past these obvious, annoying assumptions, there are a few situations; a few lines that make you smile because they remind you of someone you know. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is actually possible to enjoy the film if you assume that the writer/director, Luv Ranjan is not stupid enough to actually believe that all women fall in the intolerable, slappable category and all men are aawwww-so-cute-and-helpless. You have to give Luv the benefit of doubt and believe that he just happened to pick these characters. It's not like they don't exist in real life. 
After giving our writer/director so much, I enjoyed the characters. Only the men of course. Even as I blamed them for letting their women get them into unredeemable situations, the women themselves - at most times, I wanted to slap. In that sense the direction, the lines and the performances have succeeded. The only reason I won't rip apart the movie is the performances and what could have gone wrong with them. Each of the six main characters do a great job with their character. They actually behave like normal people. 
In fact, they surprised me. I'd be the last person to laugh or even smile at a monologue by a guy (Kartikeya Tiwari) about his frustrations with his girlfriend. Especially when it's long, oh-so long. But as it grew longer, it started making me laugh. Despite the repetition. I actually felt bad for the poor chap and his claustrophobic situation. 
If only the broad plots had a little more meat. They picked three similar starts, they chose three different situations and had three similarly "bleh" ways to end it. And yet it's one of those half-decent chick-flicks. I can see couples getting into an argument after watching it. And a movie that gets people to discuss it is a movie that has succeeded, even if it is in its own crooked way. 
This one made me wonder too. NO! not about the men and women in my life. About movies and their dependence on contrasts. A couple of weeks ago we saw Luv ka the end, where the guy was all out despicable and here we have a film that has made the woman in me hate some of the women the film represents. What's with the stark extremes? Is it because "balance" is boring?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
