
"Cute" is my first reaction to Shor in the city. Of course, not in the mush-mush kind-of way. It is after all, a dark comedy set deep in the grim, gritty recesses of a fractured city that we all make. But, a nag starts as soon as the main characters are introduced.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


As I enjoyed how well Shor in the city is shot and admired every performance, I was trying to point my finger at what was bothering me, what was keeping this from being a complete fun experience? When I read, "Each incident is inspired by a newspaper story" in the end credits, I realized the familiarity of the stories is what was bothering me. Not that I knew of the stories before hand, but this is how this new genre of "dark comedy/pulp" is beginning to settle in Hindi cinema. 
You have your mix of rugged texture, close-ups, relatively non-standard camera angles. Even story wise, you have a regular dose of hotch-potch of 4-5 stories with interesting characters. Their paths collide. And along the way, you make comments on the system we form, the society we make. 
In the social commentary department, Shor in the city chooses bribery, a sarcastic look at religion, stronghold of underworld crime, the hierarchy that a gun-holder can create, frustration of the honest man in this big, bad world. It uses a small-time crook who gets interested in the books he pirates to define both the futility, superficiality and yet the charm of the escape that a "philosophical" world creates. Oh yeah, and it also exposes our fake love for our national passion - cricket. The candid, uninhibited smooching and making out scenes announce the new-age cinema's emphatic decision to be bold and also shows how liberal the SMS/BPO center generation is. 
Given that none of these things are new to us, the performances make this film a watchable experience. Certainly, there are smart-ass dialogues but from Tusshar Kapoor to Pitobhash to Amit Mistry - each actor makes his character just perfect. 
Yeah, it is different from your mainstream films but within its genre it's "more of the same". In fact, it's one of those films in which no climax will surprise you - be it characters who die or the ones that survive. Fortunately, you mildly care for some of the characters and interested in what happens to them.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
