
A social commentary on four very contemporary topics without getting into sermons, itself is an amazing experience. It's non-judgmental and makes you feel for each of its characters. Each story is so beautifully scripted that you don't really care if they are linked to each other or not. Nor does it bother you that you don't know how they all fit in on a timeline. You are willing to go with the flow and take it matter-of-factly when a character from one story appears in another one without any specific purpose.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


All that matters are the characters and what they are going through. Afia wants to be a mother, if she can't find a man, she'll get a donor. Everyone around her thinks she has gone nuts but you want to root for her. Megha is bitter, but you don't mind the resentment because she has after all been uprooted from her homeland in the most cruel fashion. How can you not feel for Abhimanyu who has been molested as a child, even though he has now turned into a person who doesn't mind using people around him. And Omar well, his story is more about the story and mistreatment afforded towards homosexuality rather than his character. You feel confused with the actors, you see their dilemma and their pain. If they are stubborn you want to give them the benefit of doubt. 
The treatment given to each story is consistent and has a very smooth flow. That must be some achievement considering it involved different teams working on each of them. Of course, there are times when you feel like there are some parts that you'd like to know more about. For example, Afia's story feels complete. But obviously for a topic as broad as the situation of the people in Kashmir, Megha's half-hour can do only so much justice. It still doesn't take away from the beauty that you feel bad for both her and her friend Rubina.
Abhimanyu's story is also painted very broadly but then again, I'm not sure whether we want to know/see the gory details, especially when they are coming along with so many heavy issues. Same goes for Omar's homosexuality. The logistics are unclear but then again you don't know how much more you want to hear. 
All of this only makes me think that each one of these deserved a little more time, maybe even a film each. But as it stands, they are serious short films, have some brilliant performances, are well-shot and executed. A worthy watch, you just need to get into that serious mode.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
