
The set-up is as Harry Pottery as it could get. Orphaned child is used as a house servant by close relatives. He has two friends who make life livable for him. The plot deviates from here into bizarre situations. And somewhere in the strange world created, science is given all the credit. But, in the eyes of a 10-year old, it must all be fun. So, it'd be all right for kids to watch it when it comes around on TV.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


My issue with most of our stories is the lack of attention to detail. So our superhero 'zokkomon' doesn't have any superpowers, all he has is stuff enable by science. How then does he emit pretty lights around him? Maybe I'm just too scientifically challenged. 
But, it's all good because kids will oversee such stuff. They'll just be awed by the cool things this boy their age can do. That's what it looked like from the reactions of the kids sitting beside me. They were getting scared, exhilarated, laughing at all the intended points. And if it has worked for the target audience, it has worked. 
I think what worked is that the superhero didn’t go beyond his age; the pranks he played were well within a child's imagination. He stayed that age, he didn't grow up suddenly into doing larger than life stuff. Darsheel Safary's charming, not-overly cute persona works well with what he has to do in and as Zokkomon. And he's a good performer too. I loved his expressions in the roller coaster ride. 
On the other hand, Anupam Kher was annoying as Deshraj. I think I have something against obvious wigs. But his role as Magic uncle was pretty amazing. His makeup was awesome and so was his demeanour. A pity that our writers don’t believe in character-building. It's not like they can't or they don’t know how to, because they started something really interesting by having the yin and the yang, in the form of science and emotions. But it's not taken any further, there's no high point of conflict. 
Oh well, maybe that's too heavy for a kids' film. For what it is, the film is not good enough to haul the kids to a theater and cough up for the mandatory popcorn and soda. But it's perfect for a 2 hour off-time from kids when it plays on TV. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
