
It's nice to see a film-maker, whose focus is 'style', trying to talk about the victimized middle class. He tries to say that their only hope against their helplessness is by taking responsibility and trusting no one but themselves. Sounds too deep and dark for a mainstream film? Well worry not, the film doesn't take itself that seriously because it is made up of some of the most ridiculous lines and has situations taken straight from the mafia films in the 90s. Only that present day Jeevan seems to be Aditya Pancholi. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Can it get any sadder than that? Yes, it can.
The hour-long, pre-interval screen time is spent only in set-up. It introduces its 5-6 main characters and lays out the situation - none of which you can care about because there is zero attempt by any character to connect with me AND there is nothing compelling about the story so far.
Whatever happens after that has to work twice as harder to become interesting. An uphill task that only gets steeper. While most of the moves, twists and turns are predictable, there are actually a few events that took me by surprise - more like "wow, they actually did that in a Hero-oriented, Hindi film" than "whoa! Didn't see that twist coming! Cool!!"
The only thing "cool" about the film is the conceptualization of some of the scenes, in terms of post-production work, including editing. Rest is all blah comes and bigger blah goes. No, lines trying too hard to be cool dialogue don't count. That is, throwing in 'facebook','twitter','google' in a line won't make it hip and popular.
That "Abhishek Bachchan" attitude has worn off long-long ago. What's the point of a pause in a sentence, if you can predict when it's going to come because you know the actor so well now? Prateik Babbar doesn't look one bit like the seventeen year old he plays. He tries to whine like one though. Rana literally looked like a block of moving wood which would making grunting, squeaky voices every once in a while. Bipasha Basu's role has absolutely nothing important about it.
At some level, I guess the roles of everyone other than ACP Kamath (Abhishek Bachcan) were meant to create pathos for the plight of the Goan middle-class population stuck between a corrupt administrations and drug dealers. But, it just doesn't get there. 
It'd also have been interesting to see a couple of things explored further, for example, Kamath's misjudging people, or a misused woman's internal struggle. But that would be out-of-tone depth for such a superficial film. I mean, we are talking about an Additional Commissioner of Police breaking into rap while cleansing the streets of Goa. Where's the room for complexity and profundity here?
Story-wise whatever there is to see in the film, you've already seen in the promos of the film or in a film from the 80s-90s. The only marvel is the use of color and light and the visual treatment given to some of the scenes.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
