
I don't know what the filmmakers felt while making the film or even while watching the film in its entirety for the first time. Teen Thay Bhai was certainly embarrassing to watch. And this is despite the film being devoid of sexual humor. Just watching three great performers going from one unfunny gag into another is extremely uncomfortable.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


You still remember Om Puri's brilliant performances despite some really awful scripts he's picked; Shreyas Talpade doesn't need to prove his comic timing anymore; and Deepak Dobriyal is someone who has graduated from smaller, indie films into a performer you look forward to, however tiny his role. And they have a perfectly funny situation laid out before them. They are 3 brothers who hate each other but are forced to spend time together. 
Unfortunately, the only few times you do laugh/smile is owing to the actors 'rising above' the script and lines they are handed. At other times, all you want to tell the makers is ok, we get the whole shirtless Salman mockery you are trying to pull, but it's not funny just because Dobriyal is doing it.
You know how any 'respectful' Hindi family film is going to end when it starts with hatred. And the writers try to show how we try to find someone to blame for our weaknesses, but it's too plain and too in-the-face, they try subtlety and then give up, just in case the audience doesn't 'get' it. Besides you cannot have a story with no ups and downs, just one flat tone that the audience can choose to ignore and doze off. And no, an irrelevant sub-plot involving foreigners and cops doesn't help!
Interesting though, the movie starts and maintains some very good production values. Especially the lighting. They used very low lighting and maintained grays and browns despite the genre of the film. But then flashbacks are uses as an excuse to go into a contrast in tone - loud colors, background music. They are also used as an excuse to infuse romance, song & dance, and drama in the plot. This change in ambiance is disorienting. But that's immaterial because it's not like brown/gray/low-light 'style' make the writing or the lame jokes better. 
I'm confused. What do I feel worse about? High-budget films without a story or low-budget, indie films produced by the likes of Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra paying no attention to the writing.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
