
One would think we have enough films with three philandering husbands cheating on their gullible wives. Anees Bazmee is not that one. It's not the cheating that bothers me as it is the crassness and the way my mind goes numb for hours after watching such films. So, I actually looped with joy when there was no line at the online ticket counter. And the queue for current tickets was empty too! (I promise this had nothing to do with ample parking space available.)  An almost empty theater - die senseless films, die! And just before the film started I said, "come on Mr. Bazmee, make me regret my happiness." Nope not this time.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It's weird because the concept and where it's leading gives you the sense that it is anti-man and pro-woman. But, could it be any more derogatory to women if all main leads of the film have only one use for the fairer gender? Also, it wasn't comforting at all that only a man could bring a solution to all the women's problems. I'm no feminist (at least in the popular sense of the term) and don't mind seeing women as they are. But, a woman is either super-gullible or a piece of pretty furniture, seriously? 
We don't really expect much in terms of acting from Celina Jaitley and actually she isn't on screen long enough to prove either way. Don’t look at me boys, forward your complaints to Azmee. Sonam Kapoor still comes across as Bollywood's bachchi (kiddo), because the directors seem to be giving her one emotion per film. In this one she's made an unsuccessful attempt at sobbing to try and gain our sympathy. We are a desensitized lot, Baby Kapoor, you need to try harder and it better be quick, we aren't very patient either. And Rimi Sen can't blame herself. We have seen some awesome comic timing from her. She tries a fair bit here too, it just doesn't work. 
Well, if Irrfan Khan doesn't work, what else can? It's almost as if the director didn't want his actors to perform well. Suniel Shetty does the slapsticky bit (he made me laugh a couple of times) and Bobby Deol does the Bobby Deoly bit. 
Yes. That's it. That's all I have to say. Yes. That's my attempt at refusing to acknowledge any other "star" in the film who continues to assault my intelligence and gets support to do it again and again and again. This is my sign of 'non-support'. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
