
It is striking how FALTU makes you aware of our climb up the Maslow's need pyramid. Gone are the days of worrying about roti, kapda aur makaan. We are now looking at a generation who wants to be trained entertainers. And that is what makes FALTU contemporary. Alas! The methodology used is not convincing and thus along with the few jokes you can only laugh at the writers' naiveté. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It will soon be fashionable to make a film about our thoroughly flawed educational system. And isn't it a good thing that we don't expect profound and workable solutions from our films? FALTU doesn't either. But, I do like the basic concept and the way director, Remo has tried to execute it. If only it was a little funnier than it eventually is, with lines, with performances.
There were certainly a couple of hilarious, laugh-out-loud scenes. And there are other times that you might not be able to control your smile at the silliness of the situation. But, when a movie sets out to talk about social issues, it needs to leave a lasting impression by whatever means possible. Humor works at most times, but in this one, it doesn't. Especially, if you give away 2-3 of your main punch jokes in the trailer.
One reason of course, is that not all the supposedly funny lines make you laugh, though the intention is clear. As a side, you also get a few lectures on the "right way" to encourage your kids if they aren't academically bright. Also, though the writing tries hard to make characters behave differently from each other, they do end up without any outstandingly distinguishing factors. 
The other reason glaring in your face is the inadequate and loudish performances. If only FALTU had a little less of an Uday-Chopra look alike. I mean it is ok if one looks like the other, but why do both of them have to have that silly grin on their face. It just doesn't allow me to go beyond that and look at what might be acting. 
Sure Puja Gupta is the only saving grace in this department. Yeah, this despite having both Riteish Deshmukh and Arshad Warsi - two of the best we have in terms of comic timing. Again, I'd put the blame on the superfluous writing. There is just no attention paid to their characters.
Despite all of this though, the basic plot tries its best to remain true to its theme and the spirit of the film. The bunch of controlling parents is no new concept to the way many of us might have grown up. To see it on screen gives us a sense of camaraderie even. You can hear an entire generation shouting "LET GO!" when a son says that to a father. 
AND there's that last dance in the climax (no, not the closing credits, the one that is a part of the actual film). I could watch it over and over again and bumped up the rating a bit just for that one last masterpiece. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
