
We are grade 'A' fools, who aren't at all exposed to any kind of cinema other than the one dished out in the name of 'style' and 'thrill'. We don't watch the umpteen Television series from around the world from our couch, so we don't know what the very basics of a murder mystery. Yes, I'm furious. What are we in the eyes of our filmmakers? Deprived souls who have to be thankful for whatever we get?





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Maybe I wouldn't have been this irked if they had fulfilled at least one of the things they set out to achieve - style or substance. The story has zilch in terms of drama or suspense. No, pausing before every word of every dialogue doesn't fulfill that need to be nervous about what's going to happen next. If you make me hang for every word you say, literally, I will doze off. 
The style is largely superficial too. Even if you disregard the fact that there's nothing you haven't seen earlier. Unless the last you saw a Hindi film was 15 years ago, then the style might hold something for you. But then again, I'd recommend the film directed by the person who produced this film - Don.
Geez, who'd have known that a day would come when I'd recommend a Shahrukh Khan film over an Abhishek Bachchan one. It was cool when Abhishek walked that lop-sided stylish walk or sat lounging heavy on one side, clad in white against a red backdrop. After the first time though it's called repetition and predictable. You got to give me something more interesting than that. Especially when the next in line to try and impress me is Kangna Ranaut trying to finish off her English lines in a hurry. 
Sheeeesh! Sorry for the break in flow, but I just can't get over on how much one can be blind to the banality of the basic plot! Not to mention that whatever Abhishek's character does is a tangent to the main plot. And the writer's confusion is transparent - should I focus on the main plot or should I make the sub-plot bigger so we can offer it to a mainstream actor. 
You know what, I "shhuushed" the guy sitting next to me in the first hour because he kept saying, "what a bore yaar!" And when the main "twist" came along, I wouldn't have the heart to resist if that guy forced my foot into my mouth. 
Not fair. The filmmakers have actually made me feel bad about doing the right thing. I actually wanted that guy to pay attention to their film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
