
Do you second guess decisions you made? Would you like to go back in time to change them? Or do you believe you should face the consequences of the decisions you made? Would you like to try out a “what if” or an alternate reality of sorts? On a day-to-day basis, will you be able to live each day as if it were your last one? The answer to each question could range from yes to no via maybe, but the answer to the most important of them all is an emphatic no - does Baar Baar Dekho engage us with a story that deals with these questions? And just in case you asked, does Baar Baar Dekho purport to answer these questions? Yes.  





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Baar Baar Dekho is a love triangle between the boy, the girl and the boy's work. However, you don't see the chemistry between the boy and his work. And that between Jai (Siddharth Malhotra) and Diya (Katrina Kaif) is intermittent, most of which you have seen in the trailer. So, there goes your involvement with the characters and their emotions. 
What you are left with then is an average romantic film with one of the two people involved isn't quite sure and it takes two hours worth of film to convince him/her one way or the other. Of course, this one has been done to death. The filmmakers aren't oblivious to it either. Enter – time-warp. 



The back and forth, if you can call it that, in the film's narrative gets tiring by interval. Thereafter the rhythm doesn't vary much either. What the writers might have thought of  as variation and/or a twist to catch the audience off-guard isn't much of either – change or surprise. The non-linear cum time travel exercise then, comes across merely as a cute idea, rather than romantic or insightful.
The problem isn't that there is little romance or profundity. The problem is that the film thinks it is being charming and insightful. Even so, Siddharth Malhotra tries his best. You get his confusion. You kind-a sort-a get his eureka moment too. The one or two moments of “aawwww” felt over-written because they are repeated. The actor's conviction in dialogue delivery isn't enough then. 
Katrina Kaif on the other hand seems like she jumped into this one straight from Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara's “Live the moment” Laila. Of course, she has her teary and serious moments. But then, you are distracted from those with awful prosthetics. The other actors, Ram Kapoor, Sarika, Sayani Gupta, Rohan Joshi, Rajit Kapoor provide their few lines worth of boisterousness, composure, oomph, comic relief and mystery respectively. 
In the background is music that does its job very well. Compared to a usual Hindi film, there are long silences in the score. And when it plays, the music is a pleasant fusion of instruments. 
Yep, yet not enough to make it worth a watch. The unwieldy narration makes Baar Baar Dekho a tiring watch. The romance doesn't coo enough. The comedy is almost non-existent. The time travel bit makes it look like it is an attakh on nerds rather than the concept of passion for work. Let alone the question of why we are attacking the passion in the first place. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
