
'Life is more than fair' even if things don't actually turn out the way you'd like them. A beautiful thought, especially where many of us are competing in cynicism. But by the time you reach that conclusion with Utt Patang you are pretty bored with what's going. Because of repetition; because of jokes that might have worked well on paper, but didn't quite get there when delivered; because the lines that led up to the joke were as plain as they could get.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


And that's what is sad. Good gags getting murdered by mediocre writing or over/under-acting. Here at least, the performers do their job well. Sure, Vinay Pathak goes over-the-top when he plays Lucky, the underworld don obsessed by everything French - I told ya, it sounds funny, but isn't as funny to watch - we can hardly fault Vinay Pathak, it’s the way the character is written. Besides he does a wonderful job as Ram, though nothing we haven't seen earlier. (There's no particular agenda behind Vinay Pathak's double role, but I liked the choice of names for them - an obvious reference one of my favorite comedies, Golmaal.)
While Saurabh Shukla too does his usual thing of being the round man who everyone can laugh at, I thoroughly enjoyed Mona Singh's performance. Her confused, zombie-like daze is just what a woman who has recently broken up would wear. Mahie Gill sticks out like a sore thumb in this milieu. Maybe it is her loud character, maybe bad make-up, maybe the off-dubbing or then again, maybe it's just plain bad acting. 
What works best is the way in which the film is put together. I'm not talking about the editing or the transitions, but the non-linear narration flows back and forth smoothly. And the beauty is that even after the audience has put together the pieces in order, the basic plot has potential to maintain attention. I always disproportionately like parts of films that fool me. In a couple of scenes I cringed at the repetition of dialogue, only to find out later that the redundancy had a strong reason. 
Unfortunately, none of this adds up to a film that entertains or enlightens or gets me to stand up for a character or slap one. It's one of those films that you'd watch if it happened to be playing while switching channels. Such a viewing might then seem just about fair.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
