
A Flying Jatt takes the good vs. evil theme a bit too seriously. Sure, you can't expect anything less from a superhero film. But, A Flying Jatt takes every opportunity it gets to hammer a message down. I don't know what is worse – that it does so, or that it does so after avoiding it for the first half. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The first half treats the audience with some respect, allowing them to figure at least some stuff out by themselves. Post-interval it feels like the writers get the jitters and don't want to leave anything to chance. They quite literally spell out every thing. Like the film's metaphors for good and evil are clearly defined, to such an extent that they aren't representations any more. In fact, it is stretched out a bit too far.
The story book + fairy tale kind of narration makes you wonder if A Flying Jatt would have worked as a kids' film? Nope. One because it isn't marketed as such. Two, because the urban kids are just exposed to a lot better – in terms of story, action and performances. I won't even bring up the CGI, etc.
The movie even tries its hand at humor. It goes into spoof mode for a bit. However, the joke either falls flat because it goes on for too long  or it ends up being slapsticky. And of course, Amrita Singh and Jacqueline Fernandez screaming and squeaking respectively, can hardly be called humor. Tiger Shroff stumbling and stuttering as he plays a martial arts teacher can make you smile only so much. 
By the way, here's a quiz question – in which movie does Tiger Shroff play a character that doesn't require him to be a muscular guy who can do stunts, if not a martial artist? Hint: Trick question.
Jacqueline Fernandez' character, Kirti just makes it a point to highlight how pointless she is. Even Amrita Singh's character seems like a placeholder for strong women, as if to check the “feminism” box. Oh, and it hurt to see Kay Kay Menon reduced to a caricatured villain. Yet again.
Sure, A Flying Jatt has good intentions. But the moment you go all, “holier than thou” with speeches and history lessons, the cause is lost. The analogy of today's super-heros and villains was one thing that could have worked in favor of A Flying Jatt. Alas.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
