
This is a country where the first attack of arthritis symbolizes aging. We dismissed my mom's menopause as random irritability. Making a big deal out of 'turning 30' is considered, at best, much ado about nothing. That does not make the problems facing the chic-urban-turning-30 any less important. Yes, they have it all, and they want more. And proudly so; even if they have to fight for it. In that sense Turning 30!!! could have been a very important film. But it turns out to be a drab narrative. You wait for the spark and you are kept waiting.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I consider myself a part of the target audience, I'm city-bred, so what if I turned 30 a little while ago. I might not be as chic as her, but I have more than a friend or two who are like the women Turning 30!!! talks about. Yet Naina (Gul Panag) and her friends don't even remotely touch me. I'd have wanted to smile with their jokes, nod at their insights about love, life and everything that goes with it. I'd have loved to cry with them too, but I cringed after the first couple of times I saw Gul cry. There's only so much of a grown-up woman you can see crying, after all. 
The much talked about, and rightly so, Sex and The City hangover is as dreary and superficially profound as the original (go ahead, shoot me for killing your stereotype about all women liking SATC!) And yet, it wouldn't have been such a bore if it weren't so repetitive. 
Fortunately, the writer/director is very open about showing a woman's sexual urges. Hindi films have after all, always been too shy to express sensuality. That her lust goes hand-in-hand with how desperate her love gets is a slice-of-life for any woman in love - age no bar. I also liked the hand homosexuality is dealt. Right from how close friends initially react to their lesbian friend coming out to them to how the larger group reacts to how everyone comes to terms with it. 
Naina's struggle at work too is something that kept me going. It felt like the writer had some insight into a woman's aspirations at work; her frustrations with the macho men in her industry; and her struggle in getting what is rightfully hers. But, that too goes bust with a sorrily written climax. 
That's the story of the film's life. There were many things going right, but sooner or later, they go flat. 
Like a woman who's in her 60s is likely to say, celebrating or whining about a 30th is a thing-to-do by women who have it all and know nothing of real suffering and pain at the hands of their men. And this pain is physical versus the 'literal pain in the ass that her ex-boyfriend was', Naina is heard complaining about. But, that's for the 60-year old to say. We 30-Pluses had our chance and blew it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
