
Like the trailer promised, Tanu Weds Manu meets Bajrangi Bhaijaan. We get a bonus! Wake Up Sid. But what didn't expect was it would become a Housefull. However, somewhere along the way, it has a few wonderful laughs that keep it light and breezy.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sure, Happy Bhag Jayegi has all the trappings of a typical romcom, that goes for the “chaotic lie-after-lie” brand of comedy. But some of its one-liners and situations make you giggle at the silliness. Surprisingly, there is some subtle humor too. 
Also, unexpected is the social commentary on parental pressure in the form of a parallel thread. Bilal Ahmed's (Abhay Deol) track grows on the side almost unnoticed. Only, when the other characters talk about it,do you realise that it is a major part of the film. While each individual element of the story, the romance, the comedy, the politics, the social message are beaten to death in films, this mixture kind of works. The last bit slapped on, in the form of slapstick, ruins it all. 



It is the things that you don't expect Happy Bhag Jayegi to do that make the film enjoyable. Some of the humor aside, they named a character Afridi and did not take potshots at the Pakistani cricketer! That must have required some restraint. 
What's more, Bilal's wife (Momal Sheikh) who could have been the stereotypical vamp, is constrained in her reactions and in fact very human. The performances were all convincing and entertaining. The comic timing, the littlest of change in body and facial expressions, were thoroughly enjoyable. It is quite an achievement for Jimmy Sheirgill to play the guy who always loses his bride-to-be, and yet be entertaining all over again.
The music is good too. The songs for once don't seem intrusive, even if the background music weirdly guides you to laugh and stop. It is the chaos in end that just gets to you and brings the film crumbling down. It is as if you can see the writer's struggle with what they really want – a situational sense of humor verus what they think the audience wants – a slapstick. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
