
A mysterious woman on a train coupled with mistaken identity of a tourist, definitely sounds interesting. Add to that inept cops and a clichéd gangster with his Russian henchmen, and you have The Tourist. The plot looks intriguing in the trailer, but turns out to be extremely stupid. It is very slow, and is only about dialogues. The story is just a pick up from any silly thriller.  It is mostly predictable, because nothing happens in the movie! The only value is a very talented cast and the cinematography.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There are zero adrenaline moments. The amount of focus on Elise (Angelina Jolie) made me think this would turn out to be something like a Hitchcock movie. But it was below expectations, even with all the flair. 
I always wonder why the cops in such movies are so stupid, and this one just adds to my curiosity. People  standing around passively when pistols are shot, makes the entire thing look unreal. The lack of real twists weighs down hard on the film’s genre. Plus the physics of the action sequences are baffling. Almost all of them were unbelievable, and therefore irritating. 
And what should I say about the gangsters? Ah, losers.
I was looking forward to the film for Johnny Depp. But sadly, he has nothing substantial to do in the movie. He is comical, and does have his own charm. But I am so used to seeing him playing quirky, character driven parts, that it feels very odd to see him play a normal role. Angelina Jolie sure looks ravenous  - I mean ravishing. She pulls off her role as a confident woman who doesn’t like circumstances controlling her while manipulating a vulnerable tourist. 
Another thing I liked is that the film is not dark like other thrillers. The mood throughout the film is light, with a touch of comedy and a flicker of romance. The one-liners are enjoyable, though you'd have seen most of them in the trailer. Venice is made even prettier with the times of the day chosen to shoot her. 
Unhurried and verbose, the film is at the best mediocre. Jolie fans might like it since it has a lot of close-ups. Depp fans will find disappointment. Wait for a DVD if you really want to watch it. Else, you might as well give this one a pass. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Shweta Karwa. Shweta is studying engineering in Chemical Technology at UDCT, Mumbai.  You can find her on twitter as @intelshwets

