
Driver (The Rock) is out to avenge his brother’s murder while a Killer and a Cop are chasing him. With a regular pace, this one is a stereotypical revenge movie. 
The narrative is linear and the director hasn’t even attempted to induce depth or leave it to the viewer to derive any meaning out of the movie. The story spells out notable  points,, some of which irritated me because I could predict where they were going to take me. The script is something you or I could have come up with. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The movie doesn't do justice either to its name or to its genre. Not a single scene could be called ‘Faster’, and there is hardly any real action in the entire movie. Lot of killings - yes, but all of them were as simple as crushing ants (and no wrestling at all?!!). The lesser than expected number of gun fights made it a flat action film. The plot isn’t convincing enough to be a great thriller, definitely not for an audience who is used to the likes of The Departed. I could have done with more of "Killer", because it'd be great to see the reason for the character's existence! 
Though Rock looks great with all the muscle, his acting and expressionless face make me wish wrestlers didn’t change professions. Even a finer tuned character would have made me feel better. The director reserved few dialogues for Rock, and terse at that, but then that is a two-sided coin. At least they didn’t make it worse by forcing too many too-good-for-him lines on him. There is more character to the Cop than the lead, but Billy Bob Thornton is a fine actor who is wastedhere. Oliver Jackson-Cohen plays Killer (and looks killer!), but he is a kid who has much to learn. 
This is a case that proves that non-Bollywood directors also shove in scantily clad hot-looking women with no significant roles to attract audiences. A lot of the movie seems like a waste of the makers’ energy, like the emotional scenes that they tried to heave in more than once for random unnecessary push in stories. Although on the better side, the movie is not just about mindless killing. It does have some story, and a climax that could partly surprise you. Watch if you have nothing better to do.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Shweta Karwa. Shweta is studying engineering in Chemical Technology at UDCT, Mumbai.  You can find her on twitter as @intelshwets

