
The one thing that almost everyone walking out of Mohenjo Daro is likely to disappointedly say is, “regular story fitted into history.” My additional rant is that it is not even a full-hearted attempt at saying one regular story. It knows it doesn't have enough meat to at  least look new. So, it squeezes a regular romance into a regular oppressor-common man story. And yet achieves nothing new whatsoever.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It would be a real shame if the makers are convinced that they recreated history. Because there is no imagination in the sets. The costumes and makeup is pretty much what you would find in a fashion show with an Egyptian-Roman theme. Maybe the lead lady's headgear is an exception. But, that isn't too far out either. 
Oh yeah, the Mohenjo Daro-ites have a language of their own. Unfortunately, it makes you laugh more than admire it because of the way it moves on to regular Hindi. Oh, the after effects stay in the form of a few Hindi words modified to make you laugh some more. The references to suns and monsoons is cute to begin with but becomes annoying soon enough. As the movie progresses, it feels like the makers were so proud of this terminology that they had to use it to the fullest. 



The human behavior is pretty much the same too – as shallow an interpretation as many other films. Sure, a few action sequences make you sit up for a bit. But, that too has a feel of the films from the 90s. The ones that had an arena fight between the hero and a lion or an elephant or a man double the size of the hero. It brings warm memories from childhood rather than a chill down the spine.
Hrithik Roshan, Pooja Hegde, Kabir Bedi are nothing but functional. I can only imagine the kind of energy some of the action sequences might have drawn from Hrithik Roshan, but the end result is nothing that stays in memory beyond the scene.  
What stays though is the pounding background music that refuses to be tamed down. What stays is the despair at being fed yet another romance in the name of epic saga. What stays is the hope, that maybe next time. There is always a next time. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
