
When I say excessive use of slo-mo, I don't mean it lightly. ONLY scenes with dialogue reach you at normal speed. All else is in super-slow motion. And there aren't too many dialogues in the first place. I'm not saying I want more dialogues, just trying to warn you that almost 85% of the film is in slow-motion. Oh and first 20-25 minutes are a recap of the first episode. The good thing is you become a more patient person at the end of these 2.5 hours. To lend you support is a story with enough meat to do the rounds. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The birth and death of crime are a never-ending circle, especially crime that is fuelled by revenge - be it in a small village in Andhra Pradesh or a nameless society. Whatever the case, it's high time the people involved step out of the circle to see the sunshine - is what Ram Gopal Verma tried to say in Rakht Charitra Part 1 and continues to do so in part 2, only with more conviction. 
There are actions and reactions based on defined characters. When some characters see murder as the one and only solution for any kind of problem, you see with more clarity (compared to part 1) that these people haven't known any other way. They are not politicians to judge pros and cons, they are just driven by an ego that bears the tag of a fanatic. 
The story also did away with a few characters that were annoying in part 1 - Any mention of Bukka (even in the recap) and the lady police inspector were conspicuous by their absence. This convinces me even more that  Bukka's meaningless violence, which was so prominent in Part 1, was absolutely gratuitous. The women too gain some respect, they have and speak their mind. 
They also give some brilliant performances. And so does...ahem...Vivek Oberoi, ditto for Suriya. I would have liked to see more of the Inspector Mohan character, but he just walked in and out as Suriya's inner voice/soul. I think these acts were accentuated because of the slow-motion too. I don't know if it's an illusion of some kind, but the close-ups and slow-motion combination give an impression that the actor has held on to one expression long enough for me to appreciate it. 
Damn! I already mentioned the slo-mo dramatizing everything. Saying it here will tantamount to repetition, right? I'm tempted to say here that with Bukka's role cut out and the slow-motion done in regular speed here (even half the number of times) would have easily made one good film. Synergy any one? Or is that Cinergy?
Never mind, there's always the camerawork in RGV films to complain about. This time the camera does circles - no, not the standard horizontal ones, vertical ones. For good 20-25 seconds at a stretch, with no rhyme or reason. The first time, I almost thought something had gone wrong with the relay. 
 * 
"An eye for an eye, makes the whole world blind." Been there, seen that. Way too many times. Next. 
Oh wait, the climax here does leave a door open for a part 3. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
