
A chapter in history that begins with the geography of the country. The classroom effect is hard to shake off and is made only more difficult with Abhishek Bachchan digressing from a Math lesson straight into a mini-lecture on revolution. After this lame sequence, I didn't know whether I'd laugh or cry for the next 2.5 hours; all while the cast/crew wanted to inspire. The audience around me was laughing. And that grew louder with Deepika Padukone's entry. The lady just breaks into a song! BUT, things settle down. It's not that the unintentional laughter dies, but slowly, very slowly you are hooked. And it goes into 5th gear post-interval. The execution of the plan is engaging, despite the complete lack of depth in characters.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


There are some 60 odd revolutionaries, about 7-8 main ones. But none of them have any distinguishing character. They are all willing to give their lives for the cause, they all care for each other with heart and soul, they all want to make whatever little contribution they can. Maybe in that time and age the mob identity was their personal identity. And yet, the reactions by different people to the same situation is both eye-opening and touching. You will have to wait for the second half to see this though. 
Director, Ashutosh Gowariker's plan to keep the set-up of the grand plan in the first half, and focus on execution and aftermath in the second half is a huge dampener to the pace. The portrayal of the aftermath is the most interesting and well-executed part of the film and the end credit roll is as good as it could get. 
Another decision that either the director or the writer made is to assume that the viewer knows the history and the backdrop of the Chittagong conspiracy. This decision is what kept me from getting involved. Also, the narrative is like a father is telling a story to his son, "this happened, then that happened, then this happened". A flow is missing. A little background, a little rhythm to get the viewer into the atmosphere that the characters were living in would have made me care for the characters much sooner. 
And despite that, I was on board by the end. And that I think is what a good basic plot can do. As you realize by the end, there is no great dialogue, no room for brilliant performances, and yet you are with the characters. The pathos created in the last third of the film has gone a long way in doing that. So many characters and each is given its own room in the true story and thus in the film. So much so that, in this star-driven world of Hindi cinema, you don’t see either Abhishek Bachchan or Deepika PAdukone get in the way of their characters (until the end, where I guess they had to justify Abhishek's fee). And they all do just fine.  
They were crazy. Anyone who leaves the comfort of their home and fights for a cause that is not necessarily theirs has to be crazy. They fought for our freedom. Who is to say that the struggle, which lasted a few centuries, wouldn’t have gone on for 80 more years? Who's to say we wouldn't have to stay out of the McDonalds and the multiplexes along with their dogs? We don't know why they were so passionate about our freedom, but they were. The least we can do is be aware of their story. So what if it's not told in the most engrossing manner. 
Not screwing up our freedom that they were eccentric about is too much to ask for, right? 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
