
Break Ke Baad the is title inviting. For reviewers to poke fun at. But we shall refrain. Make that try to refrain. Neither before interval not after is there a high point in the film. The conflict comes in the promos and stays there until the zzzzz climax. Like Abhay (Imran Khan) and Aaliya's (Deepika Padukone) on and off relationship, moments come and go. But nothing lingers, except for a looming sense of boredom.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


With focus on just two characters, you'd hope, the film would take us to a level that we know exactly how they are going to behave. The problem though is that we know our writers much better. We know, they like Abhay, will never take risks. Actually, half-way through the film, you know there's only disappointment written for you in the end. If everyone lives happily ever after, you are going to yawn. If they choose otherwise, you are going to be ridiculing the pointlessness of the film. 
The writers brought a no-win situation upon themselves. Way too many times a beautiful thought is ruthlessly murdered by making it verbose. A film that aims at relating to the youngsters has to have something more interesting than their own fights, no? You understand the pain but don't get what the big deal is! 
A girl and a boy love each other. And like all girls and boys who are in love, they bicker until they get on our nerves. One is clingy, the other wants space. They are used to each other, so they ricochet between staying together and apart. Every once in a while they say something remarkably insightful about each other. Like two people who actually know each other. Our life on screen. In fact, they add a zest, they don’t take their fights too seriously. Good.
Only all this happens in the first half hour and repeats some 3-4 times till the end. Yet, you don't sense the claustrophobia both of them are going through. And ultimately, the characters behave like characters in a film and not like normal human beings. From being cool with their differences and conflict, suddenly these kids go on a break and are back or not or not. Bad. Very bad.
When a film chooses to mimic life and its relationships, you expect a certain warmth, which is completely missing. It's not that the actors are not doing a good job. Deepika Padukone's straight back has always made her not-so-human for me. But, the director chooses a lot of close-up shots for her and she uses them well too. The irritation, the confusion, the straightforwardness comes through.  Imran Khan wears a lot of make-up. He looks like a school boy. His character is a little on the feminine side. That's cool and he passes off as the guy who who's love struck too. But it's all very ordinary. They still don't make the characters believable.
Also, I'd much rather not see Sharmila Tagore and Navin Nischol, than see them in such shoddily written characters with some of the silliest lines. There are a couple of side characters who were interesting, but the writers didn’t have time from converting dialogues into long, mundane monologues, to delve into them. I appreciate the subtlety in Nadia's (Shahana Goswami) relationship with both Abhay and Aaliya but it looked like the editing took a whole lot of her out of the film.
Equally wasted is some awesome music. The songs come and go in the background without registering much visually. Only saving grace is that the picturisation don't kill the songs either, even if they don't add to them. I'm still going to buy the album. 
Actually, the title Break Ke Baad is a sham. Because no one has ventured into what a person goes through when he/she has broken up. Whether they have broken up or the other person has, it's still hurtful and that pain comes across only once or twice in the film. And, even then, it doesn't cut through you. Baah! What a romanticized world I live in. I'm expecting romantic films to touch me. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
