
First things first. Yes, I've read all the books of Harry Potter. Fourth book onwards, all of them the first day. Does it make me a Harry Potter fan. Yes (Well, I prefer to call myself a J.K. Rowling fan). But does that make me a fan of the movies based on the uber-popular books too? Sadly, no. I didn't like most of the movie interpretations of the books. But after watching the pathetic interpretations of the Percy Jackson and The Golden Compass, I think these folks are doing a fine job with Harry Potter. Still, I went to watch this one with lowered expectations. And I was wonderfully surprised. As soon as the censor certificate showed up with the movie title on it, everyone in the theater was hooting, clapping and the kids were making all sorts of happy noises. So that set the mood. And the movie carried it forward from then on. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


About the movie: Harry, Ron and Hermione set out to find and destroy the rest of the horcruxes to defeat Lord Voldemort. On their journey they discover the existence of the three deathly hallows, which are the three most powerful magical objects of the wizarding world. They also uncover, that You-Know-Who is hunting one of them to become invincible. The movie doesn't show much action, but lays ground for much. Each character prepares for the inevitable war, that is to come in the last movie, which fingers-crossed, would be most awesome. The lead actors (Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and ever-so-lovely Emma Watson) have done their job well.
The supporting cast didn't have much role in this one but everyone shined brilliantly in the screen-time they had. I personally am a huge-huge fan of Helena Bonham Carter (who plays Bellatrix Lestrange in the movie) and would have loved to see more of her. But hey, the story is already written and they can't play around with it much. However, they did try to fit in a few lighter moments in the film that were not in the book, and have pulled off most of them. A couple of times, the jokes seem forced though.
Most of the movie is shot in shades of gray (So if you're not watching it on the big-screen you're not going to enjoy it much). While I heard a few people complain about the darkness of the movie (They meant the dark colors. Though Voldemo... whoops.... He-who-must-not-be-named oozes plenty of darkness too), I loved it. Like in the movies like The Dark Night, Inception, Kill Bill, etc the darker shades added to the eeriness of the movie and took it from a kids' film to a we-mean-serious-business one. The background score by Alaxandre Desplat is amazing. Cinematography is a visual treat. Screenplay and Direction are ten folds better than the two movies that preceded this one. 
And here is another surprise. The best thing about the movie for me was not Emma Watson (Not even her making out scene. Yes, there is one. You're already on your way to the theater aren't you?) Not that. It was the five minutes animated sequence that told the story of the origin of the three deathly hallows. Brilliant is an understatement for it. It's so brilliantly done that I didn't want it to end. 
Verdict: You know you're going to watch it. And you wouldn't enjoy watching it nearly as much on your TV screen. So you should go, watch, and enjoy this one on the big screen. But if you were hoping for lots of action, you'd be disappointed.

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Aniket Thakkar. Aniket Thakkar, is a writer and web developer, and he loves to talk about himself in third person. When he is not busy devising evil-genius plans of world domination, he can be found writing at his website http://flashfiction.in Ever since he took the red pill, he is on an ongoing mission to find out how deep this rabbit hole goes.
    
      Aniket Thakkar also blogs at http://flashfiction.in/.
    
    
  
