
With over 500 million users, Facebook is by far, the largest social
networking site around. Facebook started in a Harward dorm room in
2003 by Mark Zuckerberg who went on to become the youngest billionaire
in the world. The movie uses the lawsuits against Mark, to tell the
back-story of how he came to achieve all that he did, pretty much like
Slumdog Millionare used the show 'Who wants to become a millionaire'
to carry their story forward. And like Slumdog Millionare, here too,
the formula worked like a charm. In pieces, it showed the changes in
Mark's character from the time he was a neglected undergrad to the
time he became a billionaire.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I've grown up reading stories about Bill Gates and how many people he
allegedly wronged on his path to success. Its Zuckerberg's time to be
under the torch. The movie would leave you with mixed emotions. You'd
love Mark for his genius and his passion towards Facebook. At the same
time you'd hate him for his cockiness and betrayals. So after the
movie, be prepared to jump in to the intense debates of who wronged
whom and how much of the movie is fact and how much is fiction. Its
good fun, as from ex-Facebook CTOs, employees and founders all are
having their say over the matter. 
Coming back to the movie, Aaron
Sorkin did a great job with the script. It was driven with sharp
dialogues that make this movie a fast paced entertainer, and not a
documentary. The surprise package for me was Justin Timberlake in the
role of Sean Parker. I had little hopes from him, but he pulled off the
role pretty nicely. Also, if you don't know the story behind Sean
Parker, do read it after watching the movie and you'd love his
character more.
All in all, The Social Network, is a brilliant movie to watch, to enjoy,
to get inspired and to have a healthy debate with friends.
Release date for India couldn't have been timed better with all the
heat between Google and Facebook. Also Facebook is rumored to launch
its alleged Gmail-killer soon. And we thought Microsoft vs Apple was
the epic battle. I won't be surprised to see a sequel a few years down
the line about either Facebooks downfall or about it, dominating the
world. Time shall tell. The only turn-off for me was all the
programmers in the movie were made to talk really fast. They always
make the geeks talk fast. Its like an unsaid code.
We-don't-talk-that-fast. Wait. May-be-we-do. Dayum!

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Aniket Thakkar. Aniket Thakkar, is a writer and web developer, and he loves to talk about himself in third person. When he is not busy devising evil-genius plans of world domination, he can be found writing at his website http://flashfiction.in Ever since he took the red pill, he is on an ongoing mission to find out how deep this rabbit hole goes.
    
      Aniket Thakkar also blogs at http://flashfiction.in/.
    
    
  
