
Note from meetu - Diwali on Fridays has been one of my worst dilemmas. wogma vs. family - a couple of the most high-profile films of the year versus the annual extended family get-together?  Invariably, I end up choosing family. Afterall, there are many Fridays but only one Diwali in a year. 
Handing it over to Poonam, who's reviewing Golmaal 3 for me. Thanks a ton! Means much! 
Wish you all a bright Diwali and a brighter year ahead! 
 * 
For someone like me, who has often asked this question – how do you keep your brains at home while watching a movie?, Golmaal 3 pretty much puts up a good defense in favour of brainless comedies.  Brainless because, predictably, there isn’t a groundbreaking plot with any memorable twists, yet you enjoy the ride anyway.  





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


What works for Golmaal 3 is distinctiveness of all its characters and a fair share of spotlight on all of them. If not for this, the movie could have easily been one aimless chaotic drone, considering that it has a bevy of harebrained, crazy characters.  
Set in Goa, the movie is kept afloat with incessant squabbles of a gang of five aimless cons (Ajay, Shreyas and Arshad, Tusshar and Kunal) aided by a delightfully dishy chick (Kareena) and an earnest elderly couple (Mithun and Ratna Pathak Shah). Add a mad, forgetful goon (Jhonny Lever) with his two ‘retro’grade henchman - therein lies an endless possibility of mindless wit and situational comedy.  
It is as if director Rohit Shetty did not want to repeat the mistakes of the previous one (yeah, I know that last year’s Diwali release Golmaal 2 was also a hit, but..) – there are no crutch characters. Even Kareena’s character is seamlessly woven into the narrative and has equal share as the boys.  
Yet what the movie loses in plot, it makes up in abundance with its wealth of jokes, funny one-liners, spoofs and situational comedies. The movie is one long standup comedy show where, more than the story, you wait for punches that are to be delivered. (I laughed at even the most cliché ones.) Rohit Shetty has also interspersed the movie with several Bollywood references. There is a spoof of rich girl, poor boy love story, atypical of Bollywood in 70s. Prem Chopra plays a cameo reminiscent of old times, and Mithun da receives a tribute of sorts by living his ‘Disco Dancer’ again. Then, there is Hum Saath Saath Hain playing in the family drawing room and Ghajni that lends a creditable gimmick to the plot.  
Jokes on fellow actors find place too, predictably Emran Hashmi features. Shahid is called Kameena (y), which could be interpreted in more than one ways, and then there is a dig even at Kareena’s ‘zero figure’.  
Music is fun and high-intensity, even if not very noteworthy (not surprising, since mood is mirthful). Two tracks, Disco Dancer and Yaad Aa Raha Hai, are from Mithun da’s old movie, Disco Dancer. See, what I mean by tribute to Mithun Da. 
Movie is also replete with characteristic Rohit Shetty-esque quirks – action scenes with cars being smashed, the chase, the Golmaal vehicle - a 5-seater motorbike this time, and elaborate opening sequences.  
The fast-paced screenplay with its heavy slapstick couldn’t have been executed without the chemistry, camaraderie and comic timing of the cast.  And when you have so many lead characters, it is only fair to credit each actor for making their quirks stand out. Though it was Ajay Devgan who not only got a grungy makeover, but also had an edge with all the masterstrokes bestowed to his character. The only two talented actors that I felt bad about were Mukesh Tiwari and Ashwini Kalsekar, who had little to do and were much ignored in this one. 
I also want to send a shout-out to the costume/dress designers that made their unobtrusive contribution to humor (not to mention the bright look and feel)– those typical costumes from 70s that Mithun and Ratna wear, note Jhonny Lever’s pants (Rajesh Khanna? :P) and those of his dapper henchmen. Also, I am intrigued how most actors in comedies can easily carry off violet, firozi (sky blue) and pink shirts as well as colourful pants.
That said, movie is not without flaws, the end doesn’t come with a big bang. Instead, the climax takes its droll course in a maddening chaos with all the characters present on screen. Also, movie could have done with some editing scissors to blot out few repetitions. In addition, sometimes during a sequence, for example the one with Mithun and th dog, the audience patiently waited for a chaotic caper to subside, awaiting a new joke. Melodrama of 70s story playing out between Mithun and Ratna outside the church was another sequence that felt bit stretched.  
Yet, bottom-line is you will laugh. Even the cynic will watch it with a wide smile, minus too many cringes. Here’s to a hilarious Diwali. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Poonam Sharma. Poonam Sharma is an instructional designer by profession, who blogs at Visceral Observations. She loves books, movies and theater. 
    
      Poonam Sharma also blogs at http://alchemistpoonam.wordpress.com/.
    
    
  
