
This review is a tribute to all my friends who complain that reviews here don't tell them about the story.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Once upon a time, there lived a little boy called Bukka. The trauma of having a weird name was the first scar on his mind. It was only symbolic of what would seem like a troubled childhood. The other damage to his brain was caused by the creepy voiceover narrator who told him bedtime stories. Bukka made his nightmares real for others, in their actual life. When boys and girls his age were learning to color within the lines, he looked for creative ways of spurting blood out of big, fat black ants. It wouldn't be a surprise if we found out that his father actually designed new instruments for him to hone his skill. These toys were why he loved his father. The only person he ever loved. 
(yeah, yeah, you are at the right place. This is the review of Rakht Charitra I)
As he grew older, he graduated to frogs, rats, and eventually humans. Such was Bukka's love for killing in new ways that, when one of his men was found dead, he would get disgusted with how clichéd the murdering style was, and kill one or two of his own henchmen, because they happened to be around. He never needed a reason to kill. His father, Nagmani Reddy, usually had someone handy to serve as specimen. Nagmani was a politician. 
Nagmani was an insecure, second-wrung politician. Nagmani was led by an easily-influenced, pawn politician, another Reddy. Other Reddy politician had a trusted rightman Veerbhadra. Now at this point (which is 7-10 minutes into the film), if I think hard, I'm sure I'll remember who offended whom and then killed whom. And there was always someone or the other who wanted revenge. But, I'm not too inclined to stress my memory. Because I don't think Ram Gopal Varma/Prashant Pandey care much about that. 
Their only intention is to set a clear stage for the next Rakht Charitra threatening to knock our doors in exactly 4 weeks. But he still had these 2 hours to fill before he could get there. So, he has put up an exhibition of the goriest gore possible. And shed all pretentions of giving us reason. Unfortunately, so impressed was he with his own output that he just added the last 15 minutes to make whatever happened thus far, redundant. 
While I have begun enjoying gore to a certain extent (so what if I still squirm), I'm a happy child if there's meaning and story behind it. And this is what happened in the last 15-30 minutes. The story presents such an interesting 'what if' for the sequel that I had to bump the rating up by a bit. Though the glimpses felt like it will just have more of the same. 
Else, Rakht Charitra is to pulp action, what David Dhawana/Priyadarshan comedies are to slapstick - brainless, story-less, motivation-less. 
*
Ps. In this world of gore, don't assume there is no place for women. Albeit the only two functions they have are to serve as objects to satisfy lust or to cry and feed for their men. 
Pps. I have a question. If Aakrosh can get into trouble for derogatory remarks against CBI officials , how come no one is bothered about the practical absence of law enforcement agencies in Rakht Charitra?
Ppps. Oh yeah, the actors they all growl and widen nostrils very well! The background music growled and the camera looked like it had nostrils that wanted to widen them beyond their capacity. O-kay enough nonsense!

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
