
I loved the last 30 minutes. There, I said it. I'll add finer details. The whole "formation" thingy was brilliant imagination and the execution mani-manifold better. I'd love to see that in 3-D. Did I mention, that it'd have to be in a much shorter film and the context would've to at least pretend to make sense? And there, I just threw away all the brownie points I was ever going to earn from a Rajni-fan. Damn! 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I have a very serious question. Where was Rajni in Robot? The cool formations I was talking about, where was Rajnikanth sir? As I remember from the last Rajni-film I saw, the whole essence of the film was that Rajni, the human being Rajni, could do all these cool things. Like say, flip a cigarette in the air, catch it right at the corner of his lips, after it is done with three summersaults, which of course happened because 'The Man' flipped it in air in the first place. Here the superpowers were adorned to the character, the robot. 
Let me elaborate further, see in Dabangg, Salman Khan played Salman Khan. So, even if I didn't like it, I could understand the high a Salman-fan would be at while watching him strut about. But here, I just don't get it. Why would a Rajni-fan want to see him do that as a Robot? Isn't that an insult to his very essence? 
Shouldn't it be something like 'Rajnikanth adds the R to obot?' 
Note that I'm not even complaining about the complete lack of logic or disregard to anything intelligent. Even the best special effect films need a thin boundary within which it needs to keep itself. I mean you create a robot to fight for the country and then have him talk to mosquitoes or cheat in exams or swim for a purse. How in the name of Rajnikanth is that cool? 
I vow not to complain about the lousy action sequences in the rest of the film, the ridiculous choreography and even worse lyrics and music. Palm refused to budge from the face whenever a song presented itself. 
Also note that I long dropped the wish to complain that for a while I thought Aishwarya Rai was the robot. How could I when the whole system was mechanized. At first, I got the feeling that the story was churned out by a machine. But I banished that thought as soon as I realized that the producer was abducted by a machine, which then took calls on how much money to pump in. 
Anyway, looks like the producer, like me, will not complain about the torture endured at the hands of a machine. Just heard from a cousin in Bangalore that tickets for Robot were selling for Rs. 10,000 in the black market today. Even if, the exaggeration is sliced down to 10%, does the buyer even give himself the choice of not liking the film?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
