
When a film is so over-the-top and the situations are so exaggerated, I tend to look for the spoof in it; the underlying comment; the cynicism. And of course, left to imagination, it ain't too difficult to find it either. But, Khichdi is so crass, that even when I laughed, I felt yucky inside. It's not the toilet-humor kind of crass. It's absolutely (hopefully-miles-away-from-reality) insensitive crass. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I guess, it's their way of saying nothing is worth taking seriously - neither deaths and funerals nor weddings; and certainly not respect for the older generation let alone each human. And while they are at it, as is in vogue these days, a potshot at the media and the education system too. As if darker the joke, harder were the writers laughing at how seriously we treat the issue in real life. 
And thus, you can find social and philosophical commentary on almost everything - from asking the creator of the universe about the scarcity of water, to a human's love for creating problems for himself - a lot of ground is covered. And most of it using juvenile humor better known as PJs (poor jokes or more appropriately lame pun jokes). My affinity for such humor is obvious. In real-life and as an audience, they are all equally greeted with eye-roll after eye-roll. 
Yet I appreciated the fluidity of the situations. A film like this could very easily have been episodic. Even the most expensive 'comedy' films from India are episodic. But, Khichdi at least has some semblance of cause giving rise to an effect, rather than a backward calculation. 
Also, given the genre, I guess the lot of actors did a fine job of looking into the camera while acting! My palm was stuck to my forehead all through a scene in which the characters are giving each other acting lessons.
Aaaye-aaye-aaye-aay-aay. What will become of this universe? Someone please tell me, Khichdi's huge following on TV is a analogical poor joke. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
