
It's so exciting when you are watching a film and you start thinking of the specific people who you want to recommend it to. And it's such an anti-climax when you get out of the theater and the enthusiasm to spread the word has somewhat dithered. I don't really know if I can blame the makers for the climax because there aren't too many other ways the film could have gone. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But, while Emotional Atyachar lasts, you are promised sharp dialogue from the world of sleaze. Thus you have been warned to the crass language and innuendoes. But the humor is quirky and comes and goes really quick, so you have to be attentive and of course get past the profanity. There are random little things which you might not remember later, but if reminded they are sure to bring a smile. 
Emotional Atyachar has an absolutely fantastic start. The spooky feel and range of characters builds and maintains intrigue. Right from the wannabe, Gujrati businessman to the muse played by Kalki Koechlin, each character is eccentric in one way or the other and it works. Yep! Even the stereotype works, because of the everyday yet witty dialogue. However, the film suffers the way any 90-minute film with so many characters would. 
Looks like an inexperienced person had some say in what parts of the story stays out of the film. In a film which otherwise had a decent flow, Emotional Atyachar has a few effects without any apparent causes. For example, why the businessman is refused funding or how does a character free himself after being tied down. The amateur editing also shows in the fact that the 90 minutes run-time is split into 60 minutes pre-interval and 30 minutes post-interval. It makes the film seem longer than it actually is. Which also means any longer and the film would have suffered. So, the editing was necessary but not necessarily done well. 
Despite that there is enough in the film to warrant a trip to the theater if dark, pulp-type fiction is your kind of entertainment.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
