
'Failure', 'Red mark of the family', 'Good for nothing' (naalaayak), 'Disgraceful' - Many of us must have grown up (or are growing up) with these words being used, often, instead of your name. Of course, we didn’t enjoy it then or relish the memory now. Yet we wanted to be, neigh, needed to be in their good graces, irrespective of our definition of 'grace' or honor. Udaan is our life on screen. Even if you were one of many who boasted the 'best child of the universe' badge, you knew someone who was living through hell. You get the point? Watch it either way. :)





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Update: Theaters this weekend are shouting out to be booked and more. While Udaan touches the heart, Tere Bin Laden is some serious laughter magnet. Lamhaa loses out on novelty value and even more so in this august company.
It's not like we haven't seen this story earlier. Amitabh Bachchan in Kabhie-Kabhie played Amit Malhotra who gave up his aspirations to be a poet and filled his father's shoes in the family business. Vicky rebelled against his dad in Sharaabi  for similar reasons. But in these films, this aspect was a backstory, a small part in the whole scheme. Udaan's beauty is that, this facet of humanity or lack thereof IS the story. 
And our story's hero, you and me is iconized by Rajat Barmecha. He's our suffering creative soul, Rohan Singh. The young debutant might not have a whole range of expressions at his disposal. But whatever he has, including his fresh, deep voice, is enough for a housefull theater to go, "dude, no-no, don't do that you'll get caught" or egging him to fight back against the arbitrary injustice. It could be Rajat's acting or the result of a strong narrative. Or it could just be the fact that we identify with him; or a combination of sorts. 
It could be his acting capabilities that gets the audience to cheer for Rohan when he slaps the wrong-doer. Or it could be the brilliant, arrogance portrayed by Ronit Roy; or the intolerable claustrophobia Ronit's character, B. Singh causes. All these elements work towards the goal of making a film with one powerful scene after the other. 
I watch an average of 6-8 movies a month, most of them in a theater. I can vouch that it ain't easy to get an ovation from people who have been in their seats for over 2 hours, watching a reasonably slow proceeding of events in a 17-year old boy's life. This despite, having two groups of dimwits cackling intermittently. 
This certainly wasn't because of what was on the screen, just bunch of inconsiderate film 'watchers'. This is relevant for an assessment of the film. Because in a serious film with strong sequences that are meant to develop both characters and relationship, it can be annoying and thus distracting to be interrupted by such hooting. And that the rest of us enjoyed the film despite this says a lot about the screenplay. 
The same reason applies to missing holes in the script. I wanted to know more about B. Singh. I am usually not the kind to demand too much backstory; I like the guessing and self-second-guessing. But here I needed a little more or maybe it's just that the everyday film has conditioned me into wanting a justification for the way things are. Me, the common man, needs a God to justify a part of how things work, and cannot accept the randomness of nature. 
Yep people, this is one of those films for which I'm ready to take blame for what I don't like. Anurag Kashyap, sir, your investment will bear fruit. If not immediately, consider it a part of buying during 'recession', this bud will blossom in the long-run. Not that you needed my reassurance, your product says it all.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
