
A city-bred girl wants to make a successful career out of being a housewife. Her ultimate goal is to mother two kids. Fair enough, that's plausible. The same city breeds this guy who has had an easy life and makes the most out of it by drinking, smoking, and lying. Acceptable. Destiny brings them together. Credible. Answers to how, when, where, are all creative and borderline believable, especially when you accept your fate of having to face cinematic liberty in all its glory. And yet, these parts don't add up to a 'must watch' or even a 'will watch some time.'





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


When you have destiny as your excuse, nothing really needs to make logical sense, right? Weird, whacky coincidences happen all the time. And despite that, the Milenge Milenge writers have gone to laborious lengths (about 50 minutes) to make a 'chance meeting' happen. That effort we have to acknowledge. But, the trouble is with the unevenness. Amit and Priya get some things so easily and predictably. Some transformations of people around them happen without any effort or reason. But then again, who are we to expect fate to deal an even hand. 
With romantic Hindi films, you can usually tell within the first 15-20 minutes which direction the film is headed and what are the possible climaxes. It's just the 'how you get there' part that makes it interesting. And that is done with a few decent and engaging anecdotes here. But, the other part of the how, the visuals, the feel of the film is like that of a fabric that irritates the skin. Primitive camera work, Hindi soap-opera-type background score, Himesh-Reshammiya-style nasal title score running through the film, inane lyrics, music from the 90s, kitschy dialogues for otherwise interesting situations, other situations which are lame on their own merit, and more such stuff - add up to a "when will this chase to meet be over?" feel. 
And this is extremely sad because Shahid Kapoor and Kareena Kapoor actually do a decent enough job. The playfulness and pain comes through as much as the script allows it to. And you begin rooting for the couple, but Milenge Milenge's script actually doesn't let you get that involved. Especially in the latter half, an arm's length distance is maintained between the audience and the characters. 
Yet, it'd be unfair if I wrote the film off completely. I have a feeling that as superficial as the story is, it connected to me, maybe by just a thread, but it did. And who knows, it might just have worked in the days of (Jab We Met.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
