
The primitiveness of the "Arranged marriage system" troubles the urban youth but is certainly a fallback option for those who cannot find an alliance for themselves. Yet the discomfort doesn't go away. Films, especially Marathi films, have now and again tried to come up with novel ways to deal with this awkwardness. Mumbai Pune Mumbai is one of them and despite its impracticalness, the idea has potential. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Besides the basic one line concept, the dialogue between two complete strangers is written really well and delivered in a decent manner too. The chemistry shared between people who have just met but for some reason or the other end up spending a day together is beautifully directed and enacted. While Swapnil Joshi behaves more like a 15-year old but it is fairly easy to ignore those moments considering his character's insight about relationships. 
The effort the writers have taken to address issues in a relationship is obvious. Concepts like being "too loyal to ones' emotions" or showing relief that a guy senses when he realizes that the crying girl is not upset because of him are some examples of the nuances captured. 
Ironically, the writing department is also one of the few issues that keep it from being a must-must watch in the theater. Almost as if to justify the title of the film, the Mumbaikar-Puneri fight is taken a bit too far. 
The other puller-downers are a little less basic. For example, the way in which the only song in the film was shot. It looked like the song existed because the lead actor refused to accept the role if he were going to be in the same outfit throughout the film. Another snag was the camerawork in some scenes. It felt like the cinematographer got bored of taking straight shots and resorted to weird angles just to entertain himself. 
Despite the above issues, the theory by itself is interesting enough to make it to your 'to watch' list. Especially, if you are on the hunt, the arranged marriage way.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
