
You cannot even call the events in Dishoom convenient coincidences. Because there is no attempt in showing cause and effect. The story of a top Indian cricketer being kidnapped before an important match by itself isn't very engaging. That's not to say that it couldn't have been. If only the writers had that much focus. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I won't say that the writers were all over the place because you know there is a lot of things they could've done that they didn't do – like item numbers during the film or slapstick and so on. But within it's genre, it has little head or tail. A couple of sequences in fact, seem like they were shot just because they were conceived. For example, a chase sequence on bikes in a theme park has completely no head or tail within the context of the film. 
Similarly, Ishkiya's (Jacqueline Fernandez) existence has no head or tail within the context of the film. Especially, in the second half, it looks like she is there to provide some variety in terms of gender. Another reason could be to stand at one place and smile goofily at the characters who pass her by. Even so the lady makes the most of it, trying to provide whatever variety in expressions as is possible within the limitations of her character. She seemed a lot more comfortable than she has been in her earlier films. 



John Abraham is as expressionless as is possible. And Varun Dhawan is as comic as a sidekick comic relief usually is. Neither of these mean a thing, right? Varun Dhawan barely makes you smile and for all the grimness John Abraham might muster, you still can't take the film seriously. 
No wonder then, that when a bomb is counting down 3..2..1...you can't muster an iota of anxiety. Akshaye Khanna does bring in a tad bit of fear for a few seconds on his entry into the film, but that doesn't stay too long. That is why it is difficult to give Dishoom any benefit of doubt. For even in a comedy, you can take it seriously and laugh only if it has real comedy in it, right?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
