
8.30 AM. 600-seater theater. Housefull. Ok-ok almost housefull, but it was mandatory to use the name, right? So, now that we are done with that, let me tell you, I'm not kidding. The theater had barely 10-15 vacant seats. And the other 585-590 seats were laughing/hooting/whistling/clapping - basically being happy they are in a theater and there is something half-half-decent on the screen.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Of course, there was this one person who was just thoroughly relishing the fact that people around her were completely involved in the chaos and enjoying the experience to the hilt - yours truly. I'm not saying I didn't like the film at all, but I couldn't call the film engrossing or 100% entertaining. It was just about alright. I laughed really hard a few times. But, not as much on a mind-blowing, insides-rattling joke as I did due to the silliness of it all. I mean what else can you laugh at when people suffer an electronic shock and that, moves on to become a dance. 
The nutty absurdity is not restricted to one-off incidents. While the first half introduces characters and builds relationships, the second half is spent in rewiring all the connections. Whose wife is whose sister is whose daughter is whose wife…or something like that. Yeah, such comedy of errors and mistaken identities have potential for loads of laughs. Housefull is neither devoid of them, nor…well, full of them. 
Of course, it's the standard loud, is almost a tolerable variety of over-the-top and it defies logic at every chance it's given. Out-of-job characters or characters with presumably low-paying jobs spend money like they are Midas. Other characters who are supposedly rich, make you wonder how such low-IQ people could get so far. 
Oops, look at me getting caught up in trivialities. The idea is to have fun, and well it is not a complete loss on that count. Had the performances been a little more subtle and a little more consistent, it could have easily been a fun ride through the run time. But, as usual, while the dialogues are on a consistent roll, the events are rather sporadic. Similarly, while the comic timing of most of the actors is brilliant, the individual scenes are not necessarily strong enough. 
The three men do their usual thing. National award winner Arjun Rampal, in his bit role, looks very uncomfortable trying his shot at comedy. The women on the other hand look good, alternate between shrieking and sort-of superficially expressing a sad/romantic emotion. I love the way Deepika Padukone carries herself in the skimpiest of clothes. Yep! There's loads and loads of that. And those who are going there for Jiah Khan, well, bother not. She barely has a cameo. 
I know it's been a famine of big-profile releases. I know you want to rush to the theater given the slightest excuse. But though it has those mindless, silly laughs, I don't have the heart to recommend that you spend money and time on what it takes for a family to go to the theaters. Time spent on it when it's out on TV/DVD though might be well worth it.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
