
"Oh look…what's that? Batman! Because this looks like Gotham city!!" 
"No"
"Oh wait! Spiderman!! He's spewing a web from his wrist!" 
"NO!!!" 
Damn!! It's the new bloke on the block called Prince…and he's no charming superhero in disguise, he's just a common thief trying to act "yo..kewl" and all that jazz!





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It's actually humiliating to me as an audience to start thinking about a film in terms of, "Which complaint should I start with?" Action, direction, acting, casting, songs, music, plot, dialogue? The deeper stuff like characterization I'll not even get into giving the genre a benefit of doubt. Just because we have seen worse, doesn't make this one anywhere close to watchable. sigh Anyway, here we go…
The base plot itself had many-many interesting possibilities. A character loses his memory. He possesses a valuable that is of immense importance to smugglers, police, crossers and double-crossers alike. We haven't the foggiest why they all want it, but obviously all of them are waiting for him to recollect where he's kept the piece. There's so much there could have been done with the mind games played and cunning plots. 
But no, we are fed some humbug about memory being forcefully removed and some inexplicable "medical science" thingy with which it can come back or something like that. I don't care because I'm not made to care. 
Story - strike out. Action film it is, and how could I even begin enjoying it, if the only thing I could think of for the first 20-25 minutes is, "Exactly how silly must Vivek Oberoi have felt doing this stuff in front of the green screen?." Including the dances! They are inserted like they used to be abruptly ages ago, just for a break from the seriousness of the other stuff going on. 
Many action films also bank on the suave lead characters and the memorable lines they are given. You got it right, Prince is not one of those many. It has Vivek Oberoi for goodness sake! Ok, let's grant that you know with cool clothes and black shades he can pass by as stylish. But, the women! Even though they have potentially, half-way interesting characters, they are extremely annoying to say the least. Their make-up, hair-do and costumes don't help the cause. 
So this character who loses his memory, regains consciousness and says, Main kaun hoon? (Who am I?)…Main kaun hoon, main kaun hoon!?! For goodness sake!! The last I heard these words said in this situation was in a film from the 90s. I guess we should just thank them for not following it up with the ever-so-oft used main kahaan hoon? (Where am I?) … Geez!! 
I guess that's the question left for the audience to answer. No not the existential "Who am I? Where am I?" The very physical "Who am I? Where am I?", once they have gotten up from their deep slumber. 
Oh wait! But we have more sleep to look forward to! Yes, Prince 2 threatens to come our way with open arms.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
