
What IS love? A movie, which has its protagonist arrive, all the way, from Venus (yes, the planet) to find out how humans fall in love should have answered that question, neigh? Apparently, love is that flimsy thing that moves on from one person to another in no time, for an equally flimsy reason. It can be argued that the film proposes that, such flimsiness occurs only till one finds 'true love'. But only a few of us will delve that deep into the movies altruistic purpose. For now, the take home is, "if you love someone, tell them quick!"





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


One thing I really appreciated about the film…No, I'm not being sarcastic!...is that the 'other' guy is not a lame character. He is the kind who can woo a girl and is not playing games to win her approval. This is such a welcome and refreshing change from the "Loser" or "crooked-minded" 'other' guy we see in our films. 
This one 'different' characterization and Riteish Deshmukhs's performance are about the two things that make this movie just about watchable. But, that too is to be taken with a pinch of salt. Interesting characters are a necessity not a luxury, so why should an audience have to thank the makers for one. And once a possibly engaging situation is created, you still have to take it further and hold you on till the climax. No such luck, here. You know the outcome well in advance, and the rest is just a formality. 
Formality is also what the other actors seem to be doing with their characters. The women have to look pretty and be the chirpy-bubblies to distract from the fact that there is actually no real plot. They do look pretty, but that's about it. They are not even granted a few of the mush-gush "snore-snort worthy" romantic lines that the men are ordained with. 
What's left then, is filled with supposed-comedy. A sample is Kaushal, Rajesh's (Riteish Deshmukh's) friend's interest in all things sex. Just that one single track running through his mind is apparently as Rajesh's alter-ego. If they ever did, I'd think those jokes worked like 10 years ago. I assume, the youth towards whom the film is targeted, has better humor than that. And their idea of love. 
Oops! Did I just admit that I'm too old for such tripe? I hope not, for the future of comedy and romance in our cinema, I hope not. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
