
Most of the sports-themed films I've seen have been based on a sport that I've enjoyed watching, at least a bit. I always wondered how differently the film would appeal to a person who is not interested in the sport, or doesn't know the rules. Today, I was a part of that audience. It is difficult to say if I didn't enjoy the film because I don't like the sport one bit or it was a not-so well made film. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


My problem with boxing - any kind - is not only that it is a brutal game but also it seemed like the wrong one to pick for a theme of peace. I know, it can be argued that the irony was the whole point of the film. But, that didn't go down well with me, at all. 
I can imagine why the film was banned in Pakistan. I'm sure we'd have a furor here if we as a country were shown as evil, manipulative and cheaters. And to top it off, if that same film had all Pakistanis doing the right thing at the right time. Also, how much sense does it make to show individuals from each country hating the other while the government is using its machinery to end the war. Maybe it's closer to truth. Scary but I still don't see how this helps the process of peace. 
The film in itself has a very standard story. You win some, you lose some. You drive home a point. I actually liked the way in which the conflict was resolved, as a concept. But, the way in which it was done, the bulk character transformations just were too much to gulp down. 
As a far-fetched possibility, the character conversions would have worked had the actors done a half-way decent job with their acting. Interestingly, Aanahad was good with the growling during his boxing games as compared to the stone-face and body he carried even when he was supposedly being playful. Some of the most awful dialogue delivery possible. And what can be done when the only inspiration around seems to be Nafisa Ali. Sushant Singh, Farookh Shaikh and Saurabh Shukla are good in their support roles but can't make up for the expressionless cast around. 
So, the theme didn't appeal to me, the performances had nothing to hold my interest. The only thing that worked for me was the camerawork. It really accentuated the well-choreographed action sequences. How true they were to the game, I wouldn't be able to tell.
A slow narrative of how a family hurt by a person from another country deals with the situation. It uses the usual means, no new moves. And I don't see why that should engage, educate, entertain?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
