
The title by itself has the power to touch any urban, nuclear family. And I wouldn't be surprised if joint families and not-so-few households in the smaller towns would be similarly affected by the title. (Now whether they acknowledge it or not is a different issue altogether.) O unannounced guest - most likely an Indian phenomenon - will thou depart in this lifetime? The humor in the title is sustained in the film. It's not laugh out loud comedy, it's not very subtle either. It keeps that smile more because your day-to-day life is echoing on screen. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The writer tries real hard to balance between two generations; between a village simpleton and the smartened, outwardly-hardened suburbanite. One has its value system intact, the other needs a little bit of dusting to reach the embedded 'good guy'. As one can imagine, all the stereotypes are in place. But they manage to get through without stepping on too many toes, too hard. You can't point at any one event or sub-plot and say, "hey, no one does that!" 
And yet, it steps into slapstick-villa or preach-zone every once in a while. It makes you go cringe-cringe. And then there are times at which Ajay Devgn and Konkona Sen Sharma go over-the-top. And that makes you go cringe-cringe too. 
Sure, between those cringes are the smiles and the laughs. At the silliness, at the good jokes and at the repetitions that work. There are also songs which are parodies of old, popular songs. Much fun and entertainment they are. 
And then there is Paresh Rawal - the perfect annoying, intrusive, meddling house-guest! It is just fun watching him a clean, nice comedy. 
Yet there is so much missing! Atithi is also another attempt at a Hrishikesh Mukherjee/Basu Chatterjee type of a film. There is even a tribute to Hamari Bahu Alka. But Atithi gets nowhere close to that charm or the warmth that those films exude. 
But the sarcasm is hard to miss. And sarcasm ain't all fun. I mean parents today sure can't teach their kids Sanskrit shlokas just like the older generation can't teach polished English or higher level Mathematics. Anyway, shouldn't all that be done by the people who are trained to do that - the teachers?! Then, what's the point of that whole sub-plot. Why use it to belittle that the parents are doing? I could literally go on and on about this issue. These are stereotypes we learn to live with. We flare at them when we see them in films, and move on. 
SO. Yeah, Atithi is serious about what it wants to say, very serious. But tries its best to keep it light. Keep the laughs going. And it does do a decent job of it, too.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
