
Avatar is a movie about love, hope and the fight for survival. It is also a dark reminiscent of the colonial times as also an ugly reflection of the times today when nature and human life are sacrificed in the face of economic development and financial profits.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It is 2154 and a huge multi-planetary corporation is hoping to hit the jackpot by hunting for a rare mineral called unobtanium on Pandora, an earth-like moon of a planet in outer space. In the process, they threaten the very existence of the locals, the Na'vi a humanoid species that inhabits the unobtanium-rich area. 
While the story itself has nothing new to offer, Cameron’s conceptualisation, vision and direction makes all the difference. Simply by turning the tables on alien movies Cameron makes a social statement about everything from capitalism to deforestation. 
The director chooses to work with relatively unknown actors -- a popular trend in Hollywood that has thrown up a completely new generation of superstars in the last decade -- and narrates the tale with conviction and a passion that very few directors can claim to boast of. Indeed, it is his vision and perception that towers way over the actors’ performances but gives you your money’s worth. 
Despite being almost three hours in duration, Avatar hardly feels as long as it is. A tight screenplay saves the day as to the immensely brilliant computer generated effects. 
The concept of Avatar was written way back in 1994. However Cameron insisted that the technology required for executing his vision was not present then. He has waited for over a decade and a half for the scientific know-how to catch up with his imagination. Eleven years after Titanic hit the screens and swept the Oscars, Cameron returns with yet another grand project touted to recreate history. Boy it has most certainly been worth the wait. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Sanjeev Kumar Singh. Sanjeev Kumar Singh watches films by day and sings songs in the night. During his spare time he tells everyone willing to listen how he could not have asked for a better name.
    
    
  
