
It's lengthy, it's slow and it's preachy. And yet it's engaging. It's not that you don't lose your patience every once in a while, but there's enough to savor on the screen. And if not that, soon enough, an interesting remark is made or story moves a bit forward in the right direction. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


A Muslim protagonist, a common man, an auto-garage owner, a part of the local community association - Hasmat bhai (Paresh Rawal) finds himself struggling what he has always believed his religion was and what he's being told his religion is. He believes in work as his religion, keeping to his commitments as his highest priority - qualities long lost in contemporary India. 
After much internal debate he follows his conscience. If it were not for the thoughtfulness and the sincerity with which the thought is put up that marks the film above average and a must watch, if not in the theater, at least on DVD. 
Even if the topic doesn't interest you, you might want to catch Road to Sangam just to experience the freshness in Paresh Rawal's ultra-serious performance. A non-caricature, non over-the-top role by him is a gem that can be non-rare but isn't. 
Unfortunately that can't be said about, some of the other performances. While Om Puri looks rather stiff, the Maulana twitching his beard and talking in a weird tone and pitch was rather amusing. Also, all the talent that went into writing Hasmat's character was absolutely missing in other characterizations. They were rather feeble and except for a one-odd case transformed without much convincing. In fact, Om Puri's character just disappears at a crucial point in the film and reappears as per writer's convenience. 
And yet the concept itself is powerful enough to let go of these glaring loopholes. The entire 2.5 hours length of Road to Sangam plays out as an intelligent drawing room argument. The pace that follows the life-style in any non-metro gives you time to mull. Mull over issues like the partition of India and Pakistan  was actually a partition of the Muslims. It toys around with what-ifs with remarks like the savings on defense expenditure had the partition been avoided. That done, what is the need of the hour today? 
Another Gandhi as you see Hasmat reincarnated as Bapu himself, as the latter's ashes pour into the holy waters. And Hasmat is just the common man like you and me - it is you and I who need to go on a satyagrah for our fellow-citizens to see what we really need - peace.
Road to Sangam does that for one community. What about fundamenatalists from other religion(s)?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
