
I feel like this unappeasable audience who demands more and more from her movie-makers. I constantly complain about one-dimensional characters. Ishqiya has three reasonably well-defined characters with very visible shades of gray and yet it doesn't give a "complete" feeling when walking out of the theater. The film is made well technically too. The interaction amongst the characters takes a hit in this one, and it is difficult to understand the motivations of their behavior.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


After an intriguing start, mid-way, the film completely changes its tone. This leaves you disconcerted. Sure, a lot about the characters is intentionally mysterious, but as we approach the climax, shouldn't there be at least a vaguely interpretable rationale. It doesn't even have the artsy, take-your-own-guess kind-of an appeal. It looks more like lazy writing. 
Khaalu-jaan (Naseeruddin Shah) is a romantic who can kill, if he wants to. Babban (Arshad Warsi) is a thug who falls in love. Both are rugged, men of the soil. Krishna (Vidya Balan) is a romantic who maintains a constant enigma about her. She's absolutely convincing as a seductress who knows what she wants (whether or not we figure it out). Once the chemistry between them is established it is awesome and the actors have done a wonderful job. But, why the chemistry happens in the first place, has no answers. 
Also, a lot of this is because you don't have any background about the setting of the film. It is either assumed that you know what happens socially and politically, in and around Gorakhpur or you are given a feeling that it is not supposed to matter. Since I don't know why the Yadavs are fighting the Thakurs, there was a huge gap in the dynamics of the various side characters. 
And yet there is a lot going on by means of entertainment and keeping you interested. The spontaneous dialogues delivered with perfect timing. The twisted plot is engaging - so what if it geared towards a lame and dissatisfying end. Also, the propriety and plausibility of Krishna's behavior are a huge question mark. 
"Executing a nice story well," is not an easy feat. With a unmissable Vishal Bharadwaj feel to the way the story is told, it is lyrical and earthy. But the story is kind-of warped and leaves a distinct taste of discontent. 
p.s. I wish a movie could be given a higher rating for awesome music. All songs, except for 'Ibn-e-batuta' are exceptional - brilliant music and lyrics to top that.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
