
The world of an aspiring actor (Shahid Kapoor) in big bad Bollywood. His tiny failures making him into a big-time LOSER, his mini-successes adding up to nothing substantial. You heard it over and over again. You've watched it at least 4 times a year. But you are hopeful that it will still be told in a way you'd enjoy; that this sorry guy will appeal to you; that you'll feel bad for him. But the makers of Chance Pe Dance don't care enough to get you involved, so there's nothing much you can give them other than maybe some eye-rolls. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Just when Shahid Kapoor was beginning to grow on me as an actor he completely irritated me. The faces he pulls, the way he carries himself are only annoying. Genelia D'souza is her regular chirpy-bubbly self and I wonder when we'll know if she can do anything else. Sure, she has her occasional emotional moment here, but nothing to remember her by. 
Can I really blame her? With such a regressive role written for her, there is only so much a girl can be expected to do. Tina, the budding choreographer she plays, is supposedly good at her job. She begins to like a guy and her life as her own ends? Why? Or maybe they are trying to comment on the undying love that a woman is capable of. Though the way the story is narrated, I doubt the writers had any such lofty aims. Laziness, they had loads of. 
Okay, lets' assume for a while that detailed characters was not something the writers had on mind. They wanted to create a story about opportunities and how you take them can make or break you. But, unfortunately, the lines in the film are as lame as that last line I just wrote. And the events in the film are so functional and episodic. They don't flow into each other. They just come and go as is convenient. 
Now, if the characters are going to behave like you'd expect them to, and if they are going to spout lines, ad verbatim what's playing in your mind, the story is bound to be predictable. There's no attempt to deviate from the norm. 
What's left than is the backdrop of the film. Both Sameer and Tina are supposed to be awesome dancers. What I know after watching this film is that Genelia and Shahid are awesome with aerobics. Dancing? Maybe we'll have to wait for another day, another film. 
For now, let's just say the entire team got all the moves wrong. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
