
It happened one night. Or did it? A boy and a girl met at a party - only they are middle-aged. They are drunk, they are naughty. Is it inevitable for physics-chemistry-biology to play their role? If 'it' happened, would it be 'that' happened? If 'it' didn't happen, is it okay, even if the thought of doing the unmentionable occurred to both parties. Is it worse if one of them is married and the other is only attached without legalities coming in the way? All questions that might plague any drawing room conversation in urban suburbia. They are put forth subtly and with sensitivity. Also to maintain interest there is a nice build-up. But unfortunately it's towards an unworthy climax. So much so that everything thus far seems in vain.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


But, you look back and you realize though they didn't leave an impact there were interesting characters spread through the film. Each of the friends in the group is going through a different phase in his/her life. An elderly couple has come to terms with life as is and has found their way to enjoy it. Another couple seem to have a wonderful understanding of each other, so much so that they seemed to be bored of each other. And hence get themselves into situations that can complicate life. It might seem that they do it unnecessarily but maybe that's their way of keeping life interesting. Another couple is going through the initial phase of incompatibility, getting upset, and lovey-dovey cajoling. The interactions in the group tell you that even the simplest of people have complicated emotions.
While the performances of most are as you'd expect - Rajat Kapoor, Ranvir Shorey. The one surprise is Dalip Tahil. Let alone talent, just seeing him do something different is refreshing. Thanks to whoever cast him, we get to see a non-caricatured Dalip. Also, one thing that I've always admired about Neha Dhupia is that though she does typical roles of a seductress, the films she chooses to do them in have something different about them. Here too she plays the mystery woman, pretty efficiently. Had it not been for the low budget-induced low-quality texture of the film, I think her performance would have been more effective.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
