
The good news is that the film is not your standard Salman Khan film that asks you to leave your brain behind. The not-so-good news is that it is still a predictable, melodramatic affair. The bad news is that the plot repeats itself twice over. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It seems like telling it once didn't take it to optimum runtime, so the writers decided to say it all over again. In turn, this one ended up being almost 3 hours long. With nothing new to tell it is interesting that the second half is more engaging than the first. It could have to do with a fresh set of action choreography in terms of the wrestling matches. 
Despite being a sports film, at its heart Sultan is romantic. But it is very conscious about being romantic. So, a boy woos a girl - twice. Each time, the boy is willing to go to any extent to win her love but of course he is too macho to accept it. Instead he calls it a fight with himself. eyeroll That and dialogue you would find in any coach-prodigy film like, “I see myself in you.” make Sultan even more predictable.



The only surprises then, can come from individual situations or performances. Individual situations try hard to seem progressive in the form of the lead lady giving a lecture on a woman's rightful place in this new age. Unfortunately, it cannot hold its own for too long and falls prey to putting the man on a pedestal despite his faults. So be it. Anyway, so is it in real life. With a pinch of salt, we can applaud a Salman Khan film to be close to reality. 
It also nods its head to reality by acknowledging that it is rife with melodrama. That still doesn't make the melodrama any more tolerable. Interestingly though, the performances do their best in keeping the melodrama at bay. There are no histrionics and minimal hamming from lead actors Salman Khan and Anushka Sharma. Supporting acts by one and all are pretty good too. Though each one of them slips in their accent and it looks particularly unnatural coming from Anushka Sharma. 
Even so, Sultan doesn't get boring. The music is engaging, the visuals are crisp and fight sequences from the second half arrest your attention while they last. They take the edge off the flat plot, yet not a whole lot. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
