
I am one of those who believes that the same old story can be told with a fresh style and thus still entertain. Unfortunately the converse is also true. The same old story can be told in a dull, soporific style and bore you to the core. You know where I'm leading you with this one - Tum Mile falls in the second category - boring. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The one line plot is as simple as it can be. Boy meets girl (as clarified in the title), they fall in love, something happens they fall out of it and the climax will tell you whether finally boy meets girl or not. Now within these confines the freshness could be in how they meet, how they start liking each other, what misunderstanding/personality clash is thrown in, etc. All these things are sort-of close to real-life. We are sure to know people and couples like these. But, here real also translates to hands-down monotonous. 
The situations are sorry enough, the dialogues attempt to add flavor but don't succeed very much. And in such state of affairs, how much can the actors do? Both Emraan Hashmi and Soha Ali Khan are delighted, sorry, shy, frustrated, helpless as the script requires them to be. All good but still mind-numbing. 
And the two of them create nothing special together. No longing in me for them to be together. No reason for me to feel good when they are all lovey-dovey, nor for me to feel pain when they are trying hard to keep those tears in. 
In all this mundane humdrum there is one thing that sticks out. The lead lady character has a personality that she stands by. She's not whimsical and neither does she have an obsessive compulsive disorder. She's a regular girl with her own aspirations and easy-going ways. She will bend backward for her man and snap every time her back protests. 
And yet I don't empathize with a girl or the boy who have come from South Africa for a day to Bombay and get stuck in the oh-so-rotten monsoons. It's nothing against the characters. It’s the way the entire episodes are narrated. So emotionless, so…so lifeless. Why should I care if they suffer like Rose did in Titanic? They couldn't create an ounce of what I felt for her. 
And that is very atypical of a Bhatt film. Whoever the director, there is enough of a twist in the story and enough interaction within the audience for them to react, to love, to hate. But, here I am sitting, bored even to finish writing this review. Nope, no good memorable tunes or lyrics in the songs either! :(

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
