
Movies about drug abuse is not new to us. Affect of drug abuse and how it takes deep roots is not news either. You might or might not be surprised that this is rampant in Punjab. You might be taken aback by the influence even though the state is merely a stop to the drugs' ultimate destination. Yet, none of these can be the sole reason for Udta Punjab to suck you into its spiraling story. It is the confluence of a quirky narrative style, matching performances and the mood created by the camerawork, sound, editing, art direction – yes, pretty much the entire team.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Sure, the narration uses editing as a very obvious tool to create connection between characters. Some times, it is a little too in the face, but at most other times it works to retain your attention. The intermingling of the stories itself works well as the unlikely dots connect in the last half  hour. 
Of course, each of the four protagonists are very obvious representations of the social strata they come from. Tommy Singh (Shahid Kapoor) is the local rockstar who is as expected full of himself. A nameless, petite lass (Alia Bhatt) represents the small village girl with huge aspirations who is just at all the wrong places at all the wrong times. She makes you wonder about the quantity and quality of inner strength a human being could possibly have. Sartaj Singh (Diljit Dosanjh)  is the quintessential corrupt cop with threadbare ethics. And Dr. Sahni (Kareena Kapoor) is the conscience of a deteriorating society who wants to set things right. 



Despite these stereotypical, more-or-less predictable descriptions, each of the characters has a little something in them which connects you to them – will to do good, remorse, need for redemption, fear of unknown, need to be fearless and more. 
Each character's actions and reactions are brought out perfectly by the actors. However, Alia Bhatt held the film together. It is as much the character and her situation, as it is the actor who absorbs all your attention, sympathy and goodwill. So much so that, it takes the light away from capable performances by each of the other actors, including Shahid Kapoor's madcap rockstar do, Kareena Kapoor's elegance and Diljit Dosanjh's quiet demeanour. 
Yet, it is these put together along with great contributions from each of the other departments that keep Udta Punjab from being yet another foul-mouthed, typical “Don't do drugs” film. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
