
The on-screen activity had the entire theater in splits! People around me couldn't stop laughing their guts out. So funny did they find the jokes and situations that the gags kept them happy through the unnecessary emotional scenes too. No-no, the audience was chuckling with the characters, not at them. I - well I didn't see the humor through most of the film. Somehow - hit-the-crotch, eunuchs-exist-that's-so-funny, Draupadi-like-undrape-Sari, people-falling-off-stairs, slapping-each-other, modified-cake-fights - don't even make me smile, smirk maybe, but nowhere near the grin-region. However, when I laughed at the other jokes, I laughed real hard.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I don't understand what's so weird or whacky about Prem (Ranbir Kapoor) or about his style of love. Nor do I understand what's so unusual about his story. Not a crime so far, even if you claim those things in the title. The onus of originality is not on you when the entire industry is "referencing." But get there in a way that is wholesome and entertaining. 
The sure way of doing that is with some howlarious dialogue, especially when you don't have much in terms of character arcs or story development going on. That they manage in fits and spurts. There is another way to enjoy the do, just pre-decide, you are going to enjoy, and you might too. 
The lead pair is another thing that might keep you going. Ranbir Kapoor plays the perfect Prem (Barjatya reference for the uninitiated). Charming and saccharine sweet. He has shades of Sunil, who tries to evoke Prem's darker side. Yes, he's aaawww-cho-chwweet. Diabetics might want to stay away. There's this one sequence in which he does a Jim Cary a lá The Mask and is pretty hilarious too. Now, why he's doing that, don’t ask! And oh yeah, remember slapstick? Yes, Ranbir is loud in this one!
Boys, Katrina Kaif is as lovely, to look at, as ever - even though she's in Sunday-Morning-Mass dresses through the film. Meaning - not much in terms of sensuous skin-show. She doesn't let that affect her performance though. Same ol' accent, same straight face, a similar ol' attempt at shedding glycerin tears.
On the brighter side, there's no first half-second half syndrome here. It is in one continuum - few emotional scenes, a few good laughs, loads of slapstick, and mucho silliness. Oh yeah… and 2-3 songs. The problem is in each of these, you find Santoshi trying to imitate some movie or director. And why not, right? Especially when you can pay tribute to Cinema Paradiso and Maine Pyaar Kiya all in one go! And if not anyone else, there's always an annoying self-reference to bank on. Reminding us of what could have been. 
It's Tom and Jerry style humor, alright. But, it doesn't have a quarter of the recall value. And the saddest part is that it's a desperate effort for a repeat performance by Rajkumar Santoshi. And that part is pretty obvious. If only being yourself wasn't that difficult. A wannabe Andaz Apna Apna. And not very successful at that. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
