
Blue is a perfectly good example of what money can’t buy-quality. With its expansive canvas, produced at an estimated 100 crores, Blue is a sheer waste of money not only for the financiers but also for the audiences. The crew comprises of two oscar winners - Musician AR Rehman and Sound Designer Resul Pookutty, Pete Zucarini of the ‘pirates of the Caribbean fame’ underwater director of photography, the pop diva Kylie Minogue and a host of stars including Sanjay Dutt, Akshay Kumar, Lara Dutta and Zayed Khan. It’s simple lesson for the first time Director Anthony D Souza that the basic premise for a good movie is a solid script and not star power!





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


In a preposterous statement Anthony D Souza said that it was necessary to restrict the film to less than two hours. But after having sat through the entire 117 minutes (minus the interval which was a relief) the movie could’ve been much shorter. I was actually bored towards the end of the movie. 
The movie is marred by an almost non existent script, weak dialogues, lack luster music and poor direction. The story is predictable from the beginning itself and therefore lacks the twists and turns that are absolutely imperative for an action packed thriller. Instead of being a roller coaster ride high on adrenaline and volatile circumstances, the movie is prosaic with a ridiculous climax. It is much too slow for a movie of its genre and does not push the viewers to the edge. Lara Dutta was probably the only factor which left the viewers gasping and asking for more!
There is no doubt that the movie has its moments. The impressive underwater sequences (Pete Zucarini) especially the one where Sanjay Dutt and Akshay Kumar actually ride a shark will take your breath away. The lighting for the underwater sequences is spectacular and the over all look is chic. 
It also boasts of some exhilarating action sequences both on land and in water. The bike chase sequence is ‘fast and furious’ which pushes the viewers to the edge. 
Lara Dutta’s sculptured body adorned by gorgeous bikinis has pushed the oomph meter to unprecedented levels and is a visual treat for all.
Blue is set in the sun soaked beaches of Bahamas. Sagar (Sanjay Dutt), a simple guy and a polished deep sea diver befriends Aaraav (Akshay Kumar), a rich ambitious businessman who loves his women and a good life. Lara Dutta (Mona) plays Sagar’s wife and his eye candy. 
A fat Sanjay Dutt is laughable as a sea diver but gives a good performance otherwise. Akshay Kumar looks uber cool with his grey goatee and a hot body. Zayed Khan’s performance is ignorable and he just cannot emote for nuts. The high point of the film is definitely Lara Dutta who will now give the other actresses a run for their money post her memorable performance in Blue. She looks as fresh as the morning mist and adds panache to her bikini clad character and does not look vulgar at all.
The dialogues are absolutely ridiculous and inarticulate. Lara Dutta in a tense moment exclaims amidst bullets and villains, “why don’t you talk and sort things out?” Amazing isn’t it! The dialogues are almost contemptible.
The music surprisingly doesn’t click at all. The much hyped Kylie Minogue number “Chiggy Wiggy” is disappointing. The other songs (that I cannot even remember vaguely) have forgettable melodies. The last song “fiqrana” does manage to stay in your head but can be easily replaced. Seems Mr. Rehman is too conscious of his new stature post Oscars and played it much too safe.
The director Anthony D Souza must realize that making a good film is not about bulging budget or star power or putting fancy visuals on screen. A good film has its foundation strong on a solid script while the façade comprises of the above mentioned facets in the right combination. 
Blue could’ve been a defining moment in the history of bollywood but instead is a damp squid. 

    
    This review is by  guest reviewer Amrah Ashraf. Amrah Ashraf, 22 is pursuing her masters in Journalism from SIMC, Pune. As confused as confusion can be, she's caught between the will to be a journalist and the desire to be a film maker. She loves reading books, spends her free time traveling and writing about them. While she was averse to films in her adolescence, she grew up to literally live off them! 
    
      Amrah Ashraf also blogs at http://mindwatchesitself.blogspot.com/.
    
    
  
