
Rustic, grainy look. Immense style. Everything else wannabe - story, acting, thriller. There isn't even an attempt to get us hooked. They try hard, really hard to get us curious. But it doesn't work. And most unfortunately, we get the feeling that they think they are succeeding and are feeling good about it. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


So you have a situation with 6 people who have lost their memories locked in a clanky, metallic setting. No one knows who's who, including their own selves. Now doesn't that strike odd? No? How about I tell you even after watching the whole movie, identities known and all, it wouldn't matter which one of the 6 was which character. The personalities are pretty similar to each other. Age no bar, sex no bar. Even if they were interchanged at will, your reaction would still be an uninvolved, "oh ok, if you say so." That is if you are bothered to react after having already spent a good 100 minutes on the film already.  
Of course there's so much that could be done with this situation, especially with the memory loss angle. But, na-ah, not a wrinkle on your forehead it brings. You are least interested in who's done what to whom. And it's difficult to point out why that is. Maybe because of the narrative style chosen. I usually enjoy two threads running together especially when they are set apart in time. But here, it just doesn't do it. Whether it is the lackluster story that happened in the history or whether the current situation is an overkill of drama for such a lame story in the background, I don't know. Both in parts, maybe. 
The non-performances don't help the do either. They actually made Dia Mirza shriek. That's just not fair. She can carry herself off in an action role, the lady can also emote, why make her character a prop? The other long list of equal length roles are all plain plain. 
You got to give some marks for the choice of texture for the film. Whether it was how the movie was shot or it was done in post-production is of little concern to the audience and the impact it has on them. The effect is pretty cool. And that's it. You enjoy the first 10 minutes and then what? There's nothing else to watch out for. Finito.
So, yet another nice concept goes down the drain. This time because there's nothing other than the concept to chug the film forward. Oh well, waiting for the Diwali releases already.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
