
A few people complain that I take "without giving the movie away" too seriously and I should at least give a bit of the story outline. Here you go - an infidel husband is trying to hide his illicit affair from his wife who's keen on finding out more about the woman who is nagging her boyfriend to leave his wife who has hired her admirer to spy on her husband who has hired a man to pretend to be his girlfriend's boyfriend who is trying to escape from the girlfriend's ex-boyfriend. And I'm not making this up! 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


I truly don't even know which pulled hair to begin with, for slapsticks like these. They take my frustration with "brains out" school of film-making to astounding new levels. How come? Because they take actors like Ranvir Shorey and throw them down the chute. Ok, can't complain about Govinda and Riteish Deshmukh because they have set themselves in that groove. Though they know and so do we, they can do much better comedy if they were given a chance to. But, charming Sushmita Sen - with or without the extra weight? She can act, most certainly better than this. Same goes for Lara Dutta.  I've always liked her for carrying of all kinds of attires in style. But the skin on display here is yuckety yuck!! And all she does is shriek, shriek louder and some more. 
And as if that weren't enough there's a sequence in the film when Govinda and Riteish Deshmukh adopt a female voice. And by definition women shriek, right? Right! So at one point there were 3 female shrieks on at once. Oh, the nightmare! Actually, I think most of the dubbing was heavily processed by the latest equipment available for editing. I refuse to believe any human could create so much noise so consistently for such a long time. 
And not so much as half a punch line in this never-ending circus. Not a single gag that could bring as much as a smirk out of you. 
I sound so petty trying to find faults in a film that might actually have felt offended if we liked something about it. Zilch content unless loud tight slaps, louder background music, moronic situations can make a non-negative contribution to content.
The religiously inclined, please let the movie-watching audience know what ritual we need to conduct to send the Dhavan-Govinda combination to retirement. Please, please, please, oh mighty ones, please tell us…

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
