
When you are sitting in a multiplex and the other 559 people in the theater are whistling away to glory at each movement of the star in the film, especially the male one, you know the film's target audience. And this was not restricted to the first few minutes of the film, it continued at regular intervals through to the end. So, the Salman-followers can stop reading here and head for the theater, it's waiting to echo with your whistles.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


For the rest of us lesser-mortals, there ain't much going on there. It’s the gang war routine. One kills the other kills the third and so on. And a couple of turns along the way. The story is as random, unbelievable and a crazy as one could expect. Yet, the dialogues can keep you going for a while, there are some really funny lines here and there.
Salman Khan has his style accompanied by the one-expression-says-it-all expression. Of course, slo-mo entries add to the spunk, as if there was any lacking. Then there's Ayesha Takia trying to cope with the speed of the film. I don't know what it is with her or maybe her image - she just doesn't fit in the typical masala role. Not to mention her wardrobe reminds me of the weird stuff doing the rounds in the 90s. And despite this, she does look really good over and above her warmth in some scenes. That one I'd give full credit to the extra layers of makeup.
Also the lady can't dance. I actually felt bad for her. She was hardly ever dancing WITH Salman in the same frame. The sequence cut to her doing some simple steps every once in a while. Fair enough, not every actor need to know how to do Prabhu Deva steps. But if they can, its sheer pleasure to watch them. I was in awe of Salman and the choreographer while the first song was playing. Pure delight. 
Then there's the romantic thread. It has a certain quality about it, but since it doesn't go too deep, you couldn't care too much for either forming in the pair or the pair as an entity. And I guess that's not the intention either. Wanted is merry at the surface, then why would it want to go deeper?
There must have been a swearing in ceremony for the cast and crew - "I swear on the XXX, I shall not take myself seriously." I think a similar clause applies when you buy your ticket. Me? Well, I'm not star-crazy, so I wouldn't understand the mania. But it was fun watching what people enjoy.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
