
Most underworld-crime based films more or less have to circle around the "vanity of vengeance". With an audience that mostly doesn't belong to the world from where the characters of the film come, the story writers pretty much don't have a choice. And yet, through this situation the writers here have made the going as interesting as possible. Building characters along the way. Creating situations for unrest at regular intervals. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The pre-requisite for a crime-based action film is a swift pace and that is one thing Baabarr doesn't lack. There's always something happening and one situation leads to another in a clean and clear flow. And so is the flow of the "boom-dishum-bang-dhickyau". The gun-mania just won't take a rest. As if the little boy just found a new toy. 
I'm not easily disturbed by violence, but Baabarr in Hindi cinema takes it to a new level. There was one scene in which I actually felt sick in my stomach. And what can I say you can count the number of non-violent scenes on your fingers. And even in those scenes the dialogue is about the violence that took place or was going to take place. 
Yet, it's not like the characters haven't been worked upon. Each type of characters have traits that stay consistent and comply with the boundaries set for them. Thus adding to the believability. They were given decent dialogues too. Though all characters, most of the time, have to either scare or get scared, there's not much wrong with the acting department. Except for maybe Mithun Chakroborty who just can't seem to keep the actor's style out of the character. 
Also the grainy texture adds to the "realistic" feel of the film. The handheld, jerky camera is put to use almost continuously, but there is chaos and tension throughout the movie too. One refreshing aspect is that the backdrop is neither Mumbai nor Hindi cinema's favorite Punjab. They've also tucked in tributes to presumed inspirations like The Godfather and Satya. But, it would be only a shock if they didn't do that. 
We see 5, maybe even 10 films, based on some underworld concept every year. The storyline can only be so much different. The only basis for watching one and not another could be something different tried in the build-up towards the climax. Baabar has a couple of vexing situations but that's about it. And besides the excessive gore this isn't much of a variant from other crime-related fields.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
