
The palpating thriller “feel” is missing from the word go, but it takes a while to register that nothing really has happened in the first half hour. A huge reason could be that you are expecting something to happen as an effect of the trailer. You adjust yourself to the sombre tone and the low lighting of the film bracing yourself for a gripping drama. But, it doesn't really come through.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Even though TE3N takes its sweet time to actually get things rolling, you have an indomitable Amitabh Bachchan playing the subdued, helpless yet determined John. While Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Vidya Balan  (in a large-ish guest appearance) have nothing spectacular to do in terms of presenting their skills, their presence is reassuring. Reassuring that if nothing else, we know we won't have to suffer bad acting. That comes in the form of Sabyaschi Chakraborty. He is absolutely unconvincing. 
Once you have gotten used to the actors and the characters they perform, you wait for the story to kick in. And kick in it does. Only it comes with its share of huge loopholes. Of course, I can't discuss those here. These are questions that come as the story moves along which you are very sure will remain unanswered but are hoping not. Unfortunately, almost all possibilities you can think of as answers are implausible and don't fit in. 



The one trick they pull is pretty neat but the details are rather dull. The 'how' of 'what' happened seems uneven. As in bits are explained in much detail and other bits are just glossed over. Meanwhile, there is a lot of repetition of dialogue and situations for some 10-15 minutes of the second half. Precious time lost in a thriller. And then to wrap it up, TE3N does what annoys me most about thrillers – has some character narrate the whole sequence of events and over-explains.
The tricks then seem pointless because the basics seem to be off. Along with the writing then, the other departments, the dark mood created by the lighting, the music wanting to take a lead on providing thrills - all seem a little too deliberate and thus forced. 
I don't quite like using the word “disappointing” for films. It has a trail of expectations attached to it. As if you had very high expectations and then were let down. The way TE3N turned out, it would've been an underwhelming experience even if I wasn't looking forward to it. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
