
A mega-bomb blast is hatched in the heart of Mumbai. There are jihadis involved. And such a serious issue is completely ripped apart with laughter from the audiences. That is exactly how lightly this unlikely subject of terrorism is dealt with in Aage Se Right. The title would be meaningless without its logo. A straight run into a no-entry lane is what this film is all about. To start off, there's a terrorist (Kay Kay Menon) and a cop (Shreyas Talpade) both of whom are the least suitable in their professions. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


It's a spoof from the first few sequences. You can sense something is off from the darkest possible ambience created in the first scene. My usual complaint with spoofs is that in the name of being satirical they tend to do the same things that they are spoofing, only more exaggeratedly. Both the writer and director refrain from doing that and that a HUGE bonus for the audience. 
Of course, they haven't been able to avoid it completely. To start with a few jokes are predictable. Then, stereotyping of people from various regions of the country has been done ad nauseam in Hindi films. There are coincidences that are not anywhere close to reality in Mumbai. Also, there's this film set whose crew is the most annoying. Add to this flashback, character transitions, token roles to women, some bad animation, and a clichéd climax - could be all in the name of satire, but it didn't entertain nor did it make a point. There's the customary joke on the targe of every third film these days - media - it receives another thrashing in the same old way. 
Enter creative dialogues. Aage Se Right has the most hilarious lines I've heard in a real long time. A couple of them made me burst out into laughter and the rest of the time I had a wide grin across my face. The situations added to the scope for dialogues. The entire idea of having a Mumbai underworld Don teach a pure Urdu speaker the Mumbaiya dialect of Hindi under the name of "correct" language was hilarious and didn't get tiring till the end. 
And add to this the little things happening in the ambience - sign boards, costumes, mobile phone ring tones colors used - all that contribute to the humorous vein. The contrast between rough and gruff Mumbaiya and the ultra-clean albeit outdated soft Urdu is unmistakable. The comparison of how the underworld organizes itself with that of the corporate world is comic. I also enjoyed the analogy of Dinkar Waghmare's (Shreyas Talpade's) character to superheroes. 
It's always fun to see Kay Kay Menon switch to comedy in an otherwise serious role. But in this one, he is a complete laugh riot. And that too completely utilizing his perfect diction. Can you miss the character's frame of mind with an actor like Kay Kay. Cool clown, Shreyas Talpade has timed his lines perfectly. Though the script requires him to be a little loud, he manages to annoy only when the co-character in the frame needs to be annoyed. The balancing might have been a tough one. A couple of other character actors have done well too, but the rest is just going through the drill.
It's been a while since I've enjoyed a spoof so much. The constant stream of funny quips and Kay Kay Menon were the main contributors. It is a good weekend watch, not necessarily a rush to the theaters for the not so keen but certainly a cool DVD watch.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
