
A film where the main characters find a load of cash has huge potential for characters and their reaction to the windfall. Even if you have the standard one good guy who wants nothing to do with it, another few that are outright criminal in their intent, a couple in-betweens, there is enough scope to make it an intense character fight. But, Toss takes the other route, making itself a full-fledged whodunit thriller. Fair enough. But it outlives its welcome by creating suspicion for each character. While it's interesting for a bit, it gets tiring and you want it to be done with. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Toss is a depiction of the darkest side of humans. Enter money matters and everything else goes for a toss - love, friendship, honesty. And selfishness takes over within a blink of the eye. Perfectly humane characters can turn into cold-blooded murderers of the worst kind - the kind who can kill friends without remorse. To add to the darkness there are sudden spurts of comedy which take away from the thrill achieved so far. Maybe it happens, but there isn't enough development for it to be convincing. 
Also, even if there is an innate beauty in leaving questions unanswered, here they feel more like a lapse in writing than an intentional part of the art. Also films that have all villains and no heroes or token heroes leave you no one to care for. As if this display is not enough there's a display of kids getting a kick out of torturing other humans. That might be the way nature has made us but sensitivity is completely missing here. So, if the thrills get cumbersome and the characters aren't appealing what is the viewer left with? 
Performances, right? Out of the lot, Prashant Raj seemed to be the only one who took his job seriously. Even if the dubbing is totally off for the women, it is only one of the contributing factors for the out-and-out shoddy job done by them all. However it is nice to see Sushant Singh as a diffident character. Despite a general lack of talent in the acting department, it is commendable that none of the characters are loud. Except of course, Rajpal Yadav who spoils the little decorum with his quirkiness for his bit-role. 
The wannabe cool shots, especially the close-ups of random objects which are meant to inspire fear, reminded me of RGV's Phoonk. Also, though the background music was abrupt at many places, there are spots where the strings used sound different and nice. But the consistent music is a bit overwhelming. Not to mention that the Bhangra song was out of place and not a pleasure to listen to. 
It looked like an opportunity missed for what could have been an edge-of-the-seat noir depiction of us as people. The main culprit, despite the lack of attention to writing, is the length. You could take this one on when you have a remote to your aide.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
