
So, there's cool-dude Rajnikantha. And there are people who absolutely love the route his sunglasses or cigarette take to get to their destinations. Among these are people who can't stop going gaga over his invincibility. Sample this. Me? I find the silliness funny. The sunglass-cigarette routine make me smile about 3 times. But then, it gets repetitive and thus predictable and ultimately boring. Exactly what happens in Quickgun Murugun which spoofs Rajni.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Our man, Quickgun Murugun - the cowboy, the protector of the cows - is out to do his job, viz, protect cows from the fanatic non-vegetarian, Rice Plate Reddy. To fulfill his duty he convinces the officers of the other world to send him back to this world. And so on and so forth.
Sounds outrageous and out-of-the-world hilarious. But it ain't that ROFLarious. There isn't much comment you can make about such films, right? There's the usual ricocheting bullets and super-power-like action. Acting is intentionally over-the-top and overtly melodramatic - by one and all - okay except maybe the cameo by Vinay Pathak. 
So is the direction, especially in terms of the long pauses to enhance the already outlived-its-stay drama. Or even the emotional drama that punctuates the flow of the film, the exaggeration of everything in every frame. But, it's a spoof, so it's all obviously deliberate and supposedly necessary, what can you say? Certainly you are not allowed to complain. 
However, there are some bits and pieces that work. These make you smile and occasionally that smile grows wider. Each character's name is a cackle each. Also a lot of the smiles are hidden in the background, in the art-work, some reference that'll make you sneer at both - the joke and your smartness because you noticed it. 
Another bit I completely enjoyed is the background score. It's creative and it's funny. There's one bit where a western-film theme music is playing on a flute. Nice! 
There is also this comment on how super-heroes and God-like humans are necessary to get rid of the filth in the society today. A good vs. evil war is more obviously portrayed as a dev vs. daanav (God vs. Satan) war. What's more? Like Lord Krishna our man has more than one love interests. There are lot of tiny comments tucked in too. Like the irony that the anti-vegetarian demons have to use different vegetables as weapons. Celebrities used to advertise commodities, an Indian's love for mother's cooking, a mother's pride on how well she cooks, etc. 
But the novelty wears off. With each of the things I liked and found funny, it was so only for the first couple of times. The third repetition onwards it became boring. So much so that one and a half hour seems too long to sit there for this.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
