
Someone I know read out a forwarded joke with full enthusiasm, “Listen to this one, it is hilarious! Why do chickens sit on eggs? Because they don't have chairs.”  I am stumped trying to figure out why this is funny. “How do they even think of this stuff!? Hats off to their brains!”, she goes on. I refrain from trying to point out that chickens don't sit on eggs. That is exactly the kind of humor Housefull 3 carries. It doesn't make you laugh much but you are dumbstruck thinking about the process which might have brought out the joke – the overall plot, the situations, the puns, the slapstick, everything. That awe takes the edge off the torture but there is enough in the form of regressive concepts, racism, sexism and other forms of insensitivity that you would rather avoid.





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The two main types of humor that Housefull 3 banks on are the forwarded variety or the kind that are with the intention of being insensitive. There is a third type in the form of performances, but of the lot only Akshay Kumar puts in all his energy. While it still didn't make me laugh, he was doing a lot more than just contorting his face. Of course, he was the only one who had a character with scope for doing more. Abhishek Bachchan and Riteish Deshmukh don't really have much to make their characters look or feel different from each other. Boman Irani too is the typical loud character you would find in every slapstick.
Similarly, the ladies Jacqueline Fernandez, Lisa Haydon and Nargis Fakhri play the regular props who are supposed to make us differentiate between cultured and uncultured women by their attire. Oh well.



Actually I got one good laugh. It was a real hoot to see how self-aware the film-makers are. They actually included a scene that confesses and apologizes for all that is wrong about the film. It is always funny when people know that what they are doing is wrong and go ahead and do it anyway.
As far as the story goes, it is hard to say whether there was some method to the silliness or we have gotten used to it so much that it seems like the new normal. Just a different shade of intolerable. 

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
