
Remember those family feuds whose existence depended on "killing romance"? Boy king, Girl maid-servant. Boy Hindu, girl Muslim. Boy vegetarian, Girl meat-eater, Boy's family and girl's family are enemies, oh and how can I forget Boy poor, girl rich. We have a little bit of a mish-mash from some of these themes in Jashnn. Which ones? Does it really matter? It is written shoddily and doesn't do any justice to whatever charm these films had should be enough to keep you away from this one. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The film pretty much ends where it starts except for the sudden transformation of characters. Losers as protagonists have to be really, really charming and the storyline around them intriguing to make the film watchable. While the modernized love story which does a sudden about turn as the climax closes in is not palatable at all. Neither Adhyayan Suman nor his character Akash are charming. 
We have to grant that Adhyayan covers a huge range of emotions. But, there is something about his personality that doesn't cut him as a lead actor. And he doesn't have that much extra talent to excuse the lack of killer looks to pull him through. Anjana Sukhani on the other hand is a mildly pleasant surprise. There are times when her dialogue delivery is flat. But there are these glimpses in which a single twitch on her face communicate what her character feels. Alas, they are very few and long distances lie in between. 
I would have been able to comment on Shahana Goswami's act, if her dispeakable wardrobe didn't distract throughout the film. Sure, she needed to have a slutty look, but was it necessary to dress her in the most hideous outfits that didn't flatter her at all. Also her body language matched more that of a roadside prostitute rather than her otherwise supposedly grand lifestyle - standing with legs wide apart don't go with plush flats and flat screens, etc. 
For a movie coming out of the Bhatt camp, Jashnn has non-hummable music and just about alright lyrics. None of them are very impressive and have no repeat value at all. 
After going through all of this, thinking back about the film, I understand that the direction could have been a lot worse. I can also imagine the look and feel being a lot less kitschy. But that wouldn't be enough for one to sit through a movie. Sleep through - maybe. At least I felt like I was just up after a good nap when the credits rolled, though I did watch the entire film.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
