
One could easily get away with saying that Agyaat has no 'real' story. And they wouldn't be entirely wrong. The one-line description and the detailed description would pretty much be the same. But as the drama in the post-interval 45 minutes unfolds the film shows the struggle of a human being. A struggle between his natural instinct to become an animal for his survival and his persistence in trying to keep himself from turning into a beast. And this is what sets the film apart and keeps it from becoming one big yawn-fest. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


Also some of the jerks - the kind in a horror film that jolt up in your seat - are done pretty well. Of course, there are other times when all you see is the camera following the subject or being followed by the face of the subject. This though is used in limitation and saves the film from becoming a tiring watch. 
At last I found the use of nauseating camera angles in an RGV film justifiable. The spookiness he tries to create this time works at least in bits - more so in the second half. Pre-halfway the film is pretty much blah. Nothing much goes on in the story other than set-up of characters. Also there is enough evidence of RGV going bonkers in post-production, especially in the sound department. And yet I wanted the cackling in the audience to stop - I understand it is inevitable when horror is on screen and yet I wanted them to give the film a chance. Also the cliff-hanger at interval shakes you out of the drowsiness immediately. 
Even until half-time the use of camera will interest people who like observing the technical aspects of film-making. Very smartly the film also gives us a peek into the hardships that the actual crew might have gone through while shooting Agyaat. it felt like you were watching Sri Lanka on the "Animal Planet" channel - with some exotic snakes being covered from close quarters. I'm fascinated by flora and fauna so seeing snakes on big screen really excites me. Though the inherent beauty of Sri Lankan jungles doesn't leave much room for creativity, an eerie atmosphere is created. Despite the loud background score's best effort to keep you from being horrified. 
Not only the music in the background, but the songs are also very obviously fit in the script for pure commercial purposes. Please tell me a skimpily-undressed Nisha Priyanka Kothari is not all it takes to make a film a financial success. Anyway, she does the usual stuff a lead lady is required to do in a "horror" film - yell and feel scared - and does it well. That is pretty much what the rest of the cast does too. Like a gym workout. Make the expression required of your character. "hold-Hold-HOLD AND pulse-Pulse-PULSE AND 8 - 7 - - 4 - " you get the drift. Right. 
Also a couple of characters have irritating traits that make them caricatures.  Though a lot of grace marks for keeping dialogue as minimal as possible given it’s a commercial project. Despite that there are a couple of scenes which could have used better dialogues instead of run-down repetition or predictability. 
I'd have liked a subtle hint of ambient noise to prevail as background sound. I want to know what it feels like in an RGV product. I know Agyaat had more potential to terrify than just this. It created neither warmth for nor curiosity about the characters. But I wanted to know more about the unknown. And that is what makes the end absolutely predictable. Oh well...if RGV could try different tactics to stun, he wouldn't be RGV, right?

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
