
At the risk of sounding extremely snotty, I didn't think I'd ever consider having a Hindi romantic film on my list of favorites. But, here I am, guilty as charged with a strong contender. There should have been 200% of credit to give away which would then be split between writer Imtiaz Ali and director Imtiaz Ali. 





(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});


The writer's decision to pick 2 characters and just focus on developing them, making them grow as people and yet keeping them consistent is a difficult one. It must have been tempting to shoot off into sub-plots. I'm glad they were ruthlessly avoided. 
My admiration for various directorial decisions kept building as the movie began. If the first few minutes of the film make you worry, it is only intentional. Trust your capable director. From the background music or lack thereo,f to the way the scenes were sewn together, the director's role is obvious. Almost every 4th or 5th film reviewed here has background music by Salim-Sulaiman but this one was so-not-in-your-face. The flow of the film from one love story into another and back is seamlessly swift. It actually reminded me of Rang De Basanti, only better, because the story was more human. 
Another brilliant stroke of genius is not losing the crux of the story to commercial viability. Yet it does keep the tone light enough to engage as many people in the audience as possible. Cracked the Midas touch, have we? 
I haven't particularly liked Deepika Padukone in her earlier films but seeing her in the cast line-up I knew if there was a person who could get her to emote it would be Imtiaz Ali. Just like he did with Kareena Kapoor in Jab We Met. And I wasn't disappointed. At least, now we know Deepika can do better than what she has done thus far. We know she can come out of the model-like within-her-frame body language. Though I seriously doubt the taste of costumes chosen for her in "chor bazaari". Minor irritant - shall be ignored. 
Of course, Saif Ali Khan has played many a romantic role. But being playful yet intense, contemporary and old-fashioned, happy but dissatisfied isn't something many lead actors in the industry could pull off. And the transition in his character is believable without being inconsistent. 
Looks like I'm sort-of back to being in awe of the writing. It makes you think. Is there point in pulling on a relationship that is not practical? Is it practical to give up on a relationship that means so much to you? Do you really know how much something means to you till you push it away and try to take it back on your own will. These are times when before you can ask "Do you love me?" you know the reply "What is love?" Does having it mean binding or finding someone who liberates you? Does not having it mean a space that needs to be filled or is it good riddance to bad rubbish? 
There are no solutions to these issues, let alone easy ones. And this one doesn't really give you an answer but it is a film and if it has a set-up and a conflict, it has to have a resolution. This is one of the most satisfying climaxes in a love story. And yet like a friend I watched the movie with said, "I hope the 'wrong' friends don't get the wrong message." That sentence will make sense only when you watch the film. And watch the film you must! So go already! And if you've already been, isn't it worth another watch?
And the beauty is if you are not the type who likes to think so much for entertainment, you'll still enjoy it. As far as looking for the flaws, I'll watch out for those the second time around. Till then I'd like to be with this feeling of having enjoyed a film completely.

    - meeta, a part of the audience
  
